Position Title
Financial Institution Specialist (Risk Management)
Agency
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Announcement Number
26-RMS-DE-CG-13061193
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? Note : Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No
3.
Please enter in your graduation or expected graduation date: (e.g. December 2026; May 2027).
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 Hoover, AL
 Mesa, AZ
 Mission Viejo, CA
 Pasadena, CA
 San Francisco, CA
 Windsor, CT
 Deerfield Beach, FL
 Tampa, FL
 Albany, GA
 Atlanta, GA
 Champaign, IL
 Mount Vernon, IL
 Indianapolis, IN
 West Des Moines, IA
 Wichita, KS
 Baton Rouge, LA
 Shreveport, LA
 Catonsville, MD
 Braintree, MA
 Lexington, MA
 Golden Valley, MN
 Mankato, MN
 Flowood, MS
 Chesterfield, MO
 Kansas City, MO
 Billings, MT
 Grand Island, NE
 Omaha, NE
 Concord, NH
 New York, NY
 Charlotte, NC
 Raleigh, NC
 Fargo, ND
 Columbus, OH
 Oklahoma City, OK
 Blue Bell, PA
 Harrisburg, PA
 Columbia, SC
 Austin, TX
 Dallas, TX
 Houston, TX
 Lubbock, TX
 Salt Lake City, UT
 Glen Allen, VA
 Seattle, WA
 Hurricane, WV
 Madison, WI
Optional Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Core Questions
1.
Are you a current Federal Employee? If yes, please enter the agency and organization. (Enter N/A if not applicable)
2.
If you are a current Federal employee, what is your duty station? [City, State] (Enter N/A if not applicable)
3.
If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving? (Note: If you are unsure, refer to your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50))
 Permanent, Career, competitive service
 Permanent, Career-conditional, competitive service
 Excepted Service
 Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 Internship Program (Pathways Program)
 Recent Graduates Program (Pathways Program)
 Not applicable
4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate pay plan of the highest graded position you held.
 GS
 WG
 SES
 CG (or GG)
 CM
 EM
 E
 Other
 N/A
5.
If you selected "Other", please enter the Pay Plan. (Enter N/A if not applicable)
6.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the highest grade level you held. (Enter N/A if not applicable)
7.
Does the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation employ any member of your family?
 Yes
 No
8.
If you selected "Yes" as your answer to the question above, please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed, and location if known.
9.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity? (Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.)
 Yes
 No
10.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No
11.
Have you accepted a buyout (to include participation in the Deferred Resignation Program) from the FDIC within the last five years?
 Yes
 No
12.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No
FIS Assessment Package
.
Thank you for your interest in a Financial Institution Specialist (Risk Management), CG-0570-7 position with the FDIC. Your resume, transcript and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the response that best describes your qualifications for Financial Institution Specialist (Risk Management) position. Please note, if qualifying based on education, you bachelor's degree included one of the following: Completion of a major course of study in accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing or other related fields that included at least 24 semester hours in business administration, accounting, finance, marketing, economics, mathematics, or statistics with at least 6 semester hours in accounting. OR Completion of at least 24 semester hours of combined course work in business administration, accounting, finance, marketing, mathematics, statistics, or economics that included at least 6 semester hours in accounting
 I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the CG-5 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as: Applying accounting or auditing principles and practices in the review or examination of financial institutions, with an understanding of the Federal and State laws that govern them.
 I have a bachelor’s degree meeting Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) requirements.
 I have 1 year of related progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience as referenced in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet any of the education or specialized experience listed above.
2.
This job requires travel, up to 3 weeks/month, depending on duty location - Are you willing to travel 1 to 3 weeks per month?
 Yes
 No
3.
Your responses to this questionnaire, along with your resume and supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses. Failure to verify or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I understand the resume and supporting documentation I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine eligibility and qualification requirements as outlined in this job announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume or supporting documentation is not sufficient to support my responses to this questionnaire, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package.
 No. I do not accept this verification statement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
