Position Title
Physical Scientist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAStratMat-27-13078063-DHA
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? -OR- Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? -OR- Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy • your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center .
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 11
 12
 13
2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful. Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 LinkedIn
 Handshake
 Facebook
 Yello
 USAJOBS
 Virtual Career Event
 In-Person Career Event
 Veteran Employment Services
 State Labor Office
 Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 Other Social Media Site
 Other Recruitment Boards
 Other Federal Agency Referral
 Television/Radio Advertisement
B5292, B5291, B5290 GS-1301-11T13 KJE
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. *ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT
 I have a Bachelor?s Degree or higher in Physical Science, Engineering, or Mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to one of the majors, as shown in A above, that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 My education is not reflected in the above statements.
2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Assisting senior scientists in gathering and compiling data for studies and reports on strategic and critical materials; Applying basic principles of materials science to help elevate material properties and specifications against established standards and guidelines; Communicating technical information to internal team members and assisting in the preparation of documents and reports.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Conducting studies and investigations related to the properties, characteristics, and uses of strategic critical materials; Knowledge of sampling and laboratory chemical analysis for compliance with outlined specifications and standards; Providing technical support to acquisition and material testing programs, including assisting with the evaluation of proposal and the resolution of common customer quality complaints.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Leading complex studies, investigations, and research to determine current and future requirements for strategic and critical materials; Serving as a subject matter expert by providing advice, guidance, and recommendations to senior management on materials acquisition, disposal strategies, and stockpile policies; Developing and formulating new projects, programs, and policies for strategic materials based on program evaluations, risk assessments, and independent analysis; Leading review of sampling and laboratory chemical analysis for compliance with contract specifications and standards.
 I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and D above.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
