Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
OPLA-LO-13030620-JP
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Feb 05, 2027
Eligibilities
1.
Do you have a Bar Membership Card or other documentary evidence?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 Birmingham, AL
 Eloy, AZ
 Florence, AZ
 Phoenix, AZ
 Tucson, AZ
 Adelanto, CA
 Concord, CA
 Imperial, CA
 Irvine, CA
 Los Angeles, CA
 Sacramento, CA
 San Diego, CA
 San Francisco, CA
 Santa Ana, CA
 Van Nuys, CA
 Aurora, CO
 Centennial, CO
 Denver, CO
 Greenwood Village, CO
 Hartford, CT
 Jacksonville, FL
 Miami, FL
 Naples, FL
 Orlando, FL
 Pompano Beach, FL
 Sunrise, FL
 Tampa, FL
 Atlanta, GA
 Lumpkin, GA
 Honolulu, HI
 Boise, ID
 Chicago, IL
 Oak Brook, IL
 Carmel, IN
 Indianapolis, IN
 Louisville, KY
 Baton Rouge, LA
 Jena, LA
 New Orleans, LA
 Oakdale, LA
 Baltimore, MD
 Hyattsville, MD
 Boston, MA
 Chelmsford, MA
 Detroit, MI
 Grand Rapids, MI
 Bloomington, MN
 Minneapolis, MN
 Kansas City, MO
 Omaha, NE
 Las Vegas, NV
 Elizabeth, NJ
 Newark, NJ
 Roseland, NJ
 Chaparral, NM
 Batavia, NY
 Buffalo, NY
 New York, NY
 Newburgh, NY
 Woodbury, NY
 Charlotte, NC
 Raleigh, NC
 Cleveland, OH
 Columbus, OH
 Oklahoma City, OK
 Portland, OR
 Berwyn, PA
 Philadelphia, PA
 Pittsburgh, PA
 York, PA
 Guaynabo, PR
 Charleston, SC
 Columbia, SC
 Memphis, TN
 Nashville, TN
 Conroe, TX
 Dallas, TX
 El Paso, TX
 Harlingen, TX
 Houston, TX
 Irving, TX
 Laredo, TX
 Los Fresnos, TX
 Pearsall, TX
 San Antonio, TX
 The Woodlands, TX
 Salt Lake City, UT
 Annandale, VA
 Richmond, VA
 Sterling, VA
 Seattle, WA
 Tacoma, WA
 Tukwila, WA
2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
5.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
FLO Continuous Announcement
.
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1.
Are you an active member and in good standing of the bar in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No
