Position Title
Physician Assistant (Mid-Level Practitioner) - Recruitment Incentive
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
BOP-N-2026-0027
Open Period
Aug 09, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job. To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following: You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center .
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)? The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency. You may be eligible for ICTAP if: You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for. For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice. To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center .
 Yes
 No
3.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
4.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more? You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources . To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating. Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No
5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 FCI ALICEVILLE, Aliceville, AL
 FPC MONTGOMERY, Maxwell AFB, AL
 FCI TALLADEGA, Talladega, AL
 FCI PHOENIX, Phoenix, AZ
 FCI SAFFORD, Safford, AZ
 FCC TUCSON, Tucson, AZ
 FCC FORREST CITY, Forrest City, AR
 USP ATWATER, Atwater, CA
 FCI HERLONG, Herlong Sierra Ordnance Depot, CA
 FCC LOMPOC, Lompoc, CA
 MDC LOS ANGELES, Los Angeles, CA
 FCI MENDOTA, Mendota, CA
 MCC SAN DIEGO, San Diego, CA
 FCC VICTORVILLE, Victorville, CA
 FCC FLORENCE, Florence, CO
 FCI ENGLEWOOD, Littleton, CO
 FCI DANBURY, Danbury, CT
 FCC COLEMAN, Coleman, FL
 FCI MARIANNA, Marianna, FL
 FCI MIAMI, Miami, FL
 FDC MIAMI, Miami-Dade County, FL
 FCI TALLAHASSEE, Tallahassee, FL
 FCI ATLANTA, Atlanta, GA
 FCI JESUP, Jesup, GA
 FDC HONOLULU, Honolulu, HI
 MCC CHICAGO, Chicago, IL
 FCI GREENVILLE, Greenville, IL
 FCI MARION, Marion, IL
 FCI PEKIN, Pekin, IL
 FCI THOMSON, Thomson, IL
 FCC TERRE HAUTE, Terre Haute, IN
 FCI LEAVENWORTH, Leavenworth, KS
 FCI ASHLAND, Ashland, KY
 USP BIG SANDY, Inez, KY
 FMC LEXINGTON, Lexington, KY
 FCI MANCHESTER, Manchester, KY
 USP MCCREARY, Pine Knot, KY
 FCC OAKDALE, Oakdale, LA
 FCC POLLOCK, Pollock, LA
 FCI CUMBERLAND, Cumberland, MD
 FMC DEVENS, Fort Devens, MA
 FCI MILAN, Milan, MI
 FSL DULUTH, Duluth, MN
 FMC ROCHESTER, Rochester, MN
 FCI SANDSTONE, Sandstone, MN
 FCI WASECA, Waseca, MN
 FCC YAZOO CITY, Yazoo City, MS
 USMCFP SPRINGFIELD, Springfield, MO
 FCI BERLIN, Berlin, NH
 FCI FAIRTON, Fairton, NJ
 FCI FORT DIX, Fort Dix, NJ
 MDC BROOKLYN, Kings, NY
 FCI OTISVILLE, Otisville, NY
 FCI RAY BROOK, Ray Brook, NY
 FCC BUTNER, Butner Federal Correctional Complex, NC
 FCI ELKTON, Elkton, OH
 FCI EL RENO, El Reno, OK
 FTC OKLAHOMA CITY, Oklahoma City, OK
 FCI SHERIDAN, Sheridan, OR
 FCC ALLENWOOD, Gregg Township, PA
 FCI LEWISBURG, Kelly Township, PA
 FCI MCKEAN, Lewis Run, PA
 FCI LORETTO, Loretto, PA
 FCI SCHUYLKILL, Minersville, PA
 FDC PHILADELPHIA, Philadelphia, PA
 USP CANAAN, Waymart, PA
 MDC GUAYNABO, Guaynabo, PR
 FCI BENNETTSVILLE, Bennettsville, SC
 FCI EDGEFIELD, Edgefield, SC
 FCI ESTILL, Estill, SC
 FCI WILLIAMSBURG, Salters, SC
 FPC YANKTON, Yankton, SD
 FCI MEMPHIS, Memphis, TN
 FCI BASTROP, Bastrop, TX
 FCC BEAUMONT, Beaumont, TX
 FPC BRYAN, Bryan, TX
 FMC CARSWELL, Federal Medical Center Carswell, TX
 FMC FORT WORTH, Fort Worth, TX
 FDC HOUSTON, Houston, TX
 FCI SEAGOVILLE, Seagoville, TX
 FCI TEXARKANA, Texarkana, TX
 FCI THREE RIVERS, Three Rivers, TX
 USP LEE, Jonesville, VA
 FCC PETERSBURG, Prince George, VA
 FDC SEATAC, Seatac, WA
 FPC ALDERSON, Alderson, WV
 FCI BECKLEY, Beaver, WV
 FCC HAZELTON, Bruceton Mills, WV
 FCI GILMER, Glenville, WV
 FSL MORGANTOWN, Morgantown, WV
 FCI MCDOWELL, Welch, WV
 FCI OXFORD, Grand Marsh, WI
2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 7
 9
 11
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
0101 Basic Quals GS-05
.
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.
1.
Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements.
 No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements.
2.
In addition to the minimum education requirement, to meet the GL-07 grade level, you must meet at least one of the following requirements: A. Completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program (certificate of completion, associate degree, or bachelor's degree). OR B. Completion of a bachelor's degree in a related health care or health related science and graduation from an accredited physician assistant educational program.
 Yes, I meet the requirements described in option A.
 Yes, I meet the requirements described in option B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements described in option A or B.
3.
To meet the GS-09 minimum requirements, in addition to the minimum education requirement and the GS-07 requirements listed above, you must meet one of the following: A. Completion of Master of Physician Assistant Studies. OR B. Completion of a master's degree in a related health care or health related science and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related master's degree programs include, but are not limited to, Master of Medical Sciences, Master of Public Health, Master of Biomedical Sciences, or other related major fields of study. OR C. Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-7 grade level and graduation from an accredited physician assistant educational program as described above. Do you meet any of the additional educational and/or experience requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the educational requirement described in A. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts at the time you apply.
 Yes, I meet the educational requirement described in B. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply.
 Yes, I meet the experience and educational requirement described in C. Applicants must UPLOAD proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply.
 No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C.
4.
To meet the GS-11 minimum requirements, in addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet one of the following: - Completion of a Doctorate of Physician Assistant Studies, Doctorate of Science Physician Assistant (DScPA), or an equivalent doctoral degree. OR - Completion of a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree in a related health field and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related doctoral degree programs include, but are not limited to, public health; allied health field; public health education; or other related health science programs. OR - Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Do you meet any of the additional educational and/or experience requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in A. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts at the time you apply.
 Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in B. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply.
 Yes, I meet the experience and educational requirement described in C. Applicants must UPLOAD proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply.
 No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C.
5.
This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section?
 Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation.
 No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided.
