Position Title
Compliance Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
UNSEC OSC-26-12857257-ST
Open Period
Dec 29, 2025 to Dec 28, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements: This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and You have not yet been separated.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. If yes , please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements: This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No
4.
Are you a current/former employee of a Federal agency under an Interchange agreement or other similar authority? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. For additional information on interchange agreements and similar authorities, click here
 Yes
 No
5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee of a Land Management Agency that meets the eligibility requirements listed below? Land Management agencies include the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation. Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation (i.e. performance appraisal(s) and all SF-50s (e.g. appointment date, separation date)) as proof of eligibility. Must have been initially hired into a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and Must have served under one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and Must have performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and If no longer employed by the land management agency, must have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 Yes
 No
6.
Do you meet any of the following eligibilities? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND have held the same grade level as the full performance level of the position being announced or higher, with the same or higher promotion potential. I am a former Federal employee who held a permanent career appointment in the competitive service AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher, with the same or higher promotion potential. I am a former Federal employee who obtained career-conditional status (and am within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher, with the same or higher promotion potential. I am a former Federal employee who meets the reinstatement eligibility requirements (discussed above) and am eligible for Reinstatement to a Higher Grade/Band than Previously Held because I have been separated from Federal service for at least 1 year with a "most recent" performance rating of record from my last career or career-conditional position of at least "Fully Successful or equivalent. You must provide SF-50 documentation supporting your last Federal separation and your "most recent' performance rating. To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. If you were career-conditional and resigned, you will need to submit your resignation SF-50. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. SF-50 block 34, Position Occupied reflects "1" and block 24, Tenure reflects "1" or "2".
 Yes
 No
7.
Do you meet any of the following eligibilities? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced. I am a former Federal employee who held a permanent career appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced. I am a former Federal employee who obtained career-conditional status (and am within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced. To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. If you were career-conditional and resigned, you will need to submit your resignation SF-50. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. SF-50 block 34, Position Occupied reflects "1" and block 24, Tenure reflects "1" or "2".
 Yes
 No
8.
Are you the spouse of an active-duty member of the Armed Forces eligible under E.O. 13832 and P.L. 115-232: The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active-duty OR the spouse of a retired/separated member of the Armed Forces with a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veteran Affairs OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active-duty status? If you indicate Yes for this question, you MUST submit the following: Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), AND If based on member's Active-Duty status: proof of active-duty status, i.e. spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active-Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status. If based on member's 100% disability: verification of the member's retirement or release/discharge from active duty AND verification of 100% service-connected disability (DD-214 and/or VA Letter, https://www.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/ . If based on member's death: verification of the member's death while on active-duty (DD-1300). For more information, review FedsHireVets.gov .
 Yes
 No
9.
Are you a current or former employee of one of the Federal agencies listed below who is eligible for non-competitive consideration? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. Postal Career Service Employee Postal Rate Commission Employee Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
 Yes
 No
10.
Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who has a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more? This includes: Veterans who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or Veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 % or more. Note: You will be required to provide supporting documentation. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for information on submitting documentation.
 Yes
 No
11.
Are you eligible for noncompetitive consideration under a hiring authority not otherwise listed? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
 Yes
 No
12.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member, or a current or former Peace Corps employee who meets one of the requirements described below for noncompetitive eligibility? Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months. *OR* Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student, or other experience related to this position. *OR* Current Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more. *OR* Former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.
 Yes
 No
13.
In the last five (5) years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5). Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFT 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No
14.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric, or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability Appointment for which you can provide appropriate documentation issued by a licensed medical professional; a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist; or any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits? Note: you are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. For additional information on requirements, click here
 Yes
 No
15.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference. Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No
Merit Hiring Plan
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
SE
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Compliance Specialist, ZA-1801-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Analyzing remote sensing space system operations to ensure adherence to laws and regulations, including evaluating remote sensing space systems’ technical capabilities with respect to specific end-uses and information system architectures for requirement compliance, and monitoring satellite and payload operations and data receipt, handling, and dissemination; Ensuring the collection and dissemination of remote sensing data, including imagery products, comply with mission requirements, including data handling, dissemination, and cybersecurity; and Authoring reports regarding remote sensing space system analysis, compliance evaluation, and component inspections.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
JKT
1.
A satellite operator under a U.S. government defense industrial base contract is using a virtual mission control center hosted by a cloud service provider. Which of the following existing federal standards and programs creates a compliance framework to assess the operator's compliance with government security requirements for cloud-hosted systems handling controlled unclassified information? Select all that apply.
 CMMC
 FIPS 140-3
 NIST SP 800-53
 FedRAMP
 NIST SP 800-57
2.
How can root mean square error (RMSE) relate to geospatial accuracy?
 There is no relationship.
 RMSE is a statistical quantification of the geolocation error of each pixel in an image.
 RMSE is the maximum error one can observe in the data.
 RMSE is the average error between predicted and observed pixel positions in an image.
3.
What types of data would be helpful in investigating if a space-based imaging payload had suffered an unexpected, significant technical malfunction? Select all that apply.
 Bus power distribution telemetry
 Unenhanced imagery data
 Payload tasking logs
 Trade press articles
 Payload command logs
 Image orders and sales data
 None of the above
4.
What private enterprise-originated evidence would be useful in assessing enterprise compliance with a government technical standard? Select all that apply.
 Policy and procedure
 System design documentation
 Blog posts
 System test results
 Personnel interviews
 Security technical implementation guide
5.
The ground sample distance of an electro-optical payload is or may be related to the following parameters:
 Altitude
 Inclination
 Off-nadir viewing angle
 Orbital period
 Eccentricity
 All of the above
 a, c
 a, c, d, e
6.
Because of their remote location, physical inaccessibility, and small size spacecraft are secure from adversarial attack.
 True
 False
7.
Which of the following are best practices in maintaining an authoritative record of communications? Select all that apply.
 Take meticulous notes during on-site inspections in as close to real-time as possible.
 Leverage recommended cybersecurity controls for maintaining data integrity.
 Leverage recommended cybersecurity controls for maintaining data privacy.
 Employ version control for digital filing systems.
 Ensure robust audit capabilities.
8.
Remote sensing payload commanding can be performed by:
 Onboard automated processes
 Manual command entry
 Command script execution
 All of the above
 None of the above
9.
What should be the first step in preparing for a time- and cost-effective on-site inspection?
 Make travel arrangements.
 Evaluate documentation and history of interactions with entity to be inspected.
 Establish the need for and goal of the inspection.
 Coordinate inspection logistics.
10.
Visible light panchromatic imagery collected by a passive electro-optical space-based system is distinguished from other forms of electro-optical imagery by:
 the ability to detect thermal properties in imagery.
 broadband collection resulting in enhanced signal at the sensor.
 spectral differentiation useful for material identification.
 the ability to use the images for moving target indication.
11.
Which of the following questions would be uniquely useful in establishing compliance with the highest FedRAMP security control baseline?
 Who is the designated person (or role) responsible for managing development, documentation, and dissemination of the enterprise access control policy, and what organizationally-defined events cause reviews of and update to access control policies and procedures?
 How is audit record analysis integrated with vulnerability scanning information, performance data, information system monitoring information, penetration test data, or other organizationally-defined data to enhance the ability to identify inappropriate or unusual activity?
 What mechanisms are in place to verify individual access authorization before granting facility access and to control facility ingress and egress?
 Within how many days from the date of discovery are high-risk vulnerabilities in the system mitigated?
 How often are system audit records reviewed and analyzed for indications of inappropriate or unusual activity, and to which personnel or roles are the findings reported to?
12.
During a remote ground terminal inspection intended to verify secure site operations, what would you expect to see, and what would you ask to review and inspect? Select all that apply.
 Antenna, antenna electronics (e.g., control unit, analog-to-digital converter), and antenna access and maintenance schedule and logs
 Visitors taking selfies with the antennas, access control policies and procedures, and significant events causing review and change to access control policies and procedures
 Site-specific cyber and physical incident response plans and personnel training logs, physical and logical mechanisms for prohibiting unauthorized information exchange
 Unlockable computer racks in a common storage area, storage area access logs, security monitoring mechanisms and related audit logs and/or footage
 Customer-supplier responsibility matrices for physical and logical ground station services provided by the site operator
13.
In the context of a classical synthetic aperture radar (SAR) sensor, which of the following parameters is not typically considered taskable?
 Pulse repetition frequency
 Grazing angle
 Chirp slope
 Antenna size
14.
The following activities are performed as part of routine Earth observation satellite operations. Select all that apply:
 Orbit determination
 Image scheduling
 Anomaly response
 Maneuver planning
 Safe mode recovery
15.
Eavesdropping is:
 the exfiltration of data by replaying commands and capturing the telemetry or payload data as it is downlinked from the spacecraft.
 a tactic by which threat actors may seek to capture network communications throughout the ground station and radio frequency communication used for uplink and downlink communications to and from a spacecraft.
 the modification of existing software, hardware, or the transponder configuration to exfiltrate data via unintentional channels.
 the compromise of a target spacecraft hosted payload to initially access and/or persist within the system.
16.
Which of the following conditions of the host spacecraft would not impact the mission of a remote sensing payload?
 Frequency of collision avoidance maneuvers
 Satellite visual magnitude as measured from the ground
 Power distribution requirements to sustain multiple payloads
 Loss of spacecraft communications, including command and data handling
17.
How is geolocation accuracy for electro-optical imagery typically expressed?
 CE90
 NIIRS
 GIQE
 Revisit Rate
18.
If a system has been accredited to be in compliance with the moderate impact security baseline, then controls associated with the privacy baseline have been implemented as well.
 True
 False
19.
While reading a newsletter, you notice an announcement that a private company has gone public. This may constitute a change in ownership.
 True
 False
20.
What is the most important element of effective cryptography (note that more than one answer may be related, select the best answer)
 The bit length of the cryptographic key
 Selecting an appropriate cryptoperiod
 Proper implementation of cryptographic standards and recommendations, including, but not limited to, algorithm selection, key management, and key information handling
 Selection of an approved cryptographic hash function
21.
As prescribed by sensor capability alone, which technical specifications could be used to characterize unenhanced hyperspectral data? Select all that apply.
 Number of bands collected
 Center frequency of each collected band
 Bandwidth of each collected band
 Image center coordinates
22.
Which of the following is not a benefit of leveraging a third-party cloud data and service provider?
 You have complete ownership and control over your data, hardware, and software configurations.
 When architected efficiently, you can easily scale to handle increases in demand.
 You do not have to procure and maintain expensive hardware and hardware support infrastructure.
 You have greater flexibility to access your data when working in different locations.
23.
Common methods for ascertaining a spacecraft's location include (select all that apply):
 Ground-based observations with LIDAR systems
 Telemetry or beacon tracking with ground station antenna
 Ground-based observations with RADAR systems
 On-board GPS measurements
 The U.S. Government provides location data free of charge
 All of the above
24.
Which subsystem is primarily responsible for maintaining a spacecraft's orientation?
 Command and Data Handling
 Electrical Power
 Attitude Dynamics and Control
 Propulsion
25.
Which enterprise divisions would you expect to interact with as part of an investigation into a spacecraft anomaly with potential implications for noncompliance with government regulations? Select all that apply.
 Marketing
 Mission management
 Spacecraft operations
 Sales
 Legal
 Ground services
26.
Which of the below mechanisms provide a satellite operator with auditable, automated means to ensure compliance with satellite and payload operations requirements? Select all that apply.
 Embedding imaging restrictions into the image ordering process and the tasking management system to prohibit scheduling unauthorized image collections.
 Assigning the sales department the role of notifying customers if they had ordered imagery that could not be disseminated pursuant to law.
 Running an altitude verification module in the mission operations software based upon one or more data sources, including telemetry and ground-based asset tracking, that alerts operators when altitude is approaching the limits of authorization.
 Using a customer relationship management software with a denied-parties verification plug-in or service to manage customer orders.
 Manually inputting image targeting information for transmission to the spacecraft with no additional checks and no traceability to the operator.
27.
Which of the following describes technical mechanisms for implementing the principle of "Least Privilege" in a system and assessment artifacts for verifying the same?
 An insider threat program is established, personnel receive training regarding identifying and reporting insider threats, and training logs are kept by supervisors based upon employee attestations of completion.
 New system user settings grant administrative access rights for all information technology support personnel and managers, and audit reports are generated upon request.
 An organization develops and distributes a “Need to Know” policy for accessing controlled unclassified information (CUI) and documents which information systems store CUI.
 System user settings default to least access, role-based permissions are employed, access lists are regularly reported, and execution of privileged functions is logged and reported.
28.
The Supply Chain Risk Management and System and Services Acquisition security requirement families can together:
 create a foundational set of requirements that enable an operator to broadly assess security risks to their space system and acquire technical solutions to mitigate those risks.
 be used in concert to mitigate all risks associated with threat actor reconnaissance of an operator’s supply chain and product delivery mechanisms in order to plan future campaigns and perpetuate other threat tactics.
 govern how an operator evaluates third-party ground service providers prior to commitment to a contract and structures contracts to ensure confidentiality and integrity of controlled unclassified information.
 None of the above
29.
There is a dataset with millions of rows and dozens of columns. You need to analyze the data to generate a report, which will include data visualization. Which of the following combinations of Python libraries would be appropriate?
 NumPy, Matplotlib, TensorFlow
 NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib
 Flask, SQL, Pandas
 Django, NumPy, PlotPy
30.
What is a "conjunction" in the context of spacecraft operations?
 A planned orbital maneuver
 A close approach between two or more artificial resident space objects
 A period of increased solar weather
 An alignment of planetary bodies
31.
What is the primary motivation for conducting an on-site inspection?
 To prevent noncompliance from occurring
 To meet a regional inspection metric requirement
 To gain deeper insight and evidence regarding observations of noncompliance
 To meet a temporal inspection metric requirement
 To gain deeper insight and evidence regarding allegations of noncompliance
32.
A satellite operator is deploying software related to the control of its spacecraft to a third-party service provider. In order to protect its intellectual property, the operator should:
 train the third-party service provider on the specifics of the source code so that the third-party understands how it works, and deploy the source code to the third-party’s operating environment so that the third-party can perform its own maintenance on the code.
 not use third-party services because insufficient controls exist to mitigate the risk of intellectual property theft.
 exercise strict access control and versioning of the source code and deploy only a compiled executable to the third-party’s operating environment.
 train the third-party service provider on the specifics of the source code to understand how it works, but deploy only a compiled executable to the third-party’s operating environment.
33.
An EW attack can (select all that apply):
 cause automated processes to initiate early or late by targeting the spacecraft event time.
 adversely impact the spacecraft’s ability to maintain its orbit.
 trigger automated tasks to execute, causing erratic spacecraft behavior, or be processed erroneously, causing downlink of incorrect telemetry and threatening the spacecraft’s reliability and integrity.
 can be mitigated by spacecraft bus authentication and on-board message encryption.
 None of the above
34.
The ______ segment of a space system has historically been considered the most vulnerable due to being prone to a wide range of attacks, from direct physical attacks to computer network intrusions.
 Space
 Link
 Mission control center
 Ground
35.
Which of the following are supply chain risks for space systems cybersecurity? Select the two clearest risks.
 The organization that built spacecraft communications components withholds technical details pertaining to encryption processes.
 The spacecraft bus mission operations center, which is operated by a third-party service provider, is on an isolated network.
 A third-party cloud service provider is contracted to provide the logical resources accredited at the FedRAMP high level to process mission data after they have been downlinked.
 Due to schedule constraints, quality control testing is expedited for a component sourced from a new foreign fabrication facility.
36.
Under contract for repair services, a small satellite that can only change its attitude is captured by a servicing vehicle. Without knowing details of the contract, how might the remote sensing mission of a payload on the small satellite be impacted? Select all that apply.
 The servicing vehicle company now owns the remote sensing payload hosted on the small satellite.
 Enabled by the servicing vehicle, the small satellite might be able to change its orbital parameters.
 The combined small satellite and servicing vehicle together present a larger radar cross section to ground-based sensors.
 Enabled by the servicing vehicle, the remote sensing mission lifetime might be extended.
37.
The formula for ground sample distance (GSD) of an electro-optical sensor is as follows: GSD = (p * H) / f Where: p is pixel pitch H is altitude and f is focal length Pixel Pitch 8 µm Perigee 475 km Focal length 1.25 m Diameter 0.5 m Wavelength 550 nm For a sensor with the above design specifications, what is the GSD?
 3.04 m
 7.6 m
 0.304 m
 760 m
 3.8 m
38.
Most programming languages contain error handling associated with the performance of the code's specific function and which includes a "finally" block. What is the purpose of the finally block?
 To execute code only if you throw an exception
 To execute code only if you don’t throw an exception
 To report the error code for that type of error
 To execute code regardless of an exception being thrown or not
 To catch all exceptions in the code
39.
Threat actors may attempt to fully replace the cryptographic keys on the spacecraft, which could lock out the mission operators and enable the threat actor's communication channel. Threat actors, therefore, may exploit weaknesses in the key management strategy. The U.S. Government recommendation for cryptographic key management is standardized by:
 NIST SP 800-171
 NIST SP 800-53
 NIST SP 800-57
 FIPS 140-3
40.
Which of the following is a common type of cybersecurity attack that satellite operators, specifically, must be concerned with?
 Ransomware
 Spoofing
 SQL Injection
 Phishing
41.
You are inspecting a facility, and assess that certain evidence that you examine suggests noncompliance with U.S. Government regulation. What do you do?
 Accuse the private entity of violating the regulation and threaten enforcement action based only on what you have seen.
 Dynamically identify additional information that will assist in evidencing noncompliance and request to review documentation, observe processes, and interview personnel to contribute to the ongoing assessment.
 End the inspection early so that you can think about next steps.
 Continue the inspection as-planned and flag the information for consideration and follow-up.
42.
You are assessing foreign control over a private entity's technical operations of its satellite constellation. What types of corporate characteristics might you examine (select all that apply):
 Corporate management and Board of Directors governance
 Legal structure and related contracts
 Location and ownership of operating assets
 Personnel (staffing) for satellite operations
 Technical capability and capacity for satellite operations
 None of the above
43.
In what circumstance might you ask to review a spacecraft's housekeeping telemetry?
 When verifying data collection characteristics based upon instrument acceptance criteria
 During spacecraft assembly and environmental testing
 During a bus anomaly investigation
 When performing an on-site “bent pipe” ground terminal inspection
 After finding evidence suggesting variance between accurate and represented spectral characteristics of a sensor
44.
A satellite suffers a mission-ending anomaly, and the operators claim that the failure was the result of solar activity. Which agency and program publishes data that could help you to verify the operator's claim?
 NASA JSFC
 DOE SDPS
 NOAA SWPC
 NASA JPL
 NSF NRAO
45.
You are investigating news reports that a private entity has launched and is operating an unlicensed spacecraft. What U.S. Government agencies and departments may have information that could assist you as you begin your investigation, and what type(s) of information might they have? (select all that apply):
 FCC, spectrum use licensing for spacecraft radiofrequency communications
 NSF, U.S. satellite operator contact information and spacecraft mission registry
 NASA, authoritative catalog of all space objects launched and deployed
 FAA, record of space U.S. space vehicle launches
 USSF, satellite catalog of space objects and operator information for registered objects
46.
You are investigating allegations of noncompliant image collection. Which of the following types of data may assist in establishing if image collections were compliant or not?
 Payload command logs, on-board image storage time, slant range to image center coordinates, and dwell time
 Image collection day and time, off-nadir viewing angle, image center coordinates, and spectral bands collected
 Collected spectral bands, corner coordinates, off-nadir viewing angle, and image downlink day and time
 Day and time of command uplink, payload command logs, on-board image storage time, and image downlink day and time
47.
In order to be compliant with NIST SP-800 171r3, the acquisition of external system services must (select all that apply):
 include the definition of security requirements to be satisfied by external system service providers.
 include documentation that the acquiring party is fully responsible for the implementation of security requirements needed to protect the confidentiality and integrity of controlled unclassified information.
 include the definition and documentation of user roles and responsibilities with regard to external system services, including shared responsibilities with external service providers.
 include the implementation of processes, methods, and techniques to monitor security requirement compliance by external service providers.
 All of the above.
 None of the above.
48.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was easiest for you to answer and why.
49.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was hardest for you to answer and why.
50.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was the most memorable and why.
51.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired. I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.
 Yes
 No
