Position Title
CYP Fee Assistance Operations Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13060592 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Millington, TN
 C. Norfolk, VA


Merit Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Current CNIC Employee Only
1.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent (within 60 days) Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Fee Assistance Operations Clerk position with the DoN Child and Youth Programs, N926. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have one year or more of general adminitrative work experience; OR an Associate degree in Business Administration, Project Management or in a related field; OR an equivalent combination of education and experience?
 
 
 Yes, I have one year or more of general administrative work experience.
 Yes, I have Associate’s degree in Business Administration, Project Management or in a related field.
 Yes, I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have experience with the policies and procedures related to a Military or a state Fee Assistance Program or reviewing eligibility and parent fee information within a military child and youth program?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing general administrative work assignments, such as preparing and maintaining reports; reviewing paperwork for accuracy; and/or disseminating information to customers?
 I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙