Position Title
CIVIL ENGINEER
Agency
Department of the Air Force - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
AFPC-STEMDHA-12857453-0810
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Dec 21, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
ICTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy • your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center .
 Yes
 No
3.
Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technicians: I am a MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 Yes
 No
4.
Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible: I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 Yes
 No
5.
Priority Placement Program DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement: I am a MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Eielson AFB, AK
 Elmendorf AFB, AK
 Fort Richardson, AK
 Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 Luke AFB, AZ
 Little Rock AFB, AR
 Beale AFB, CA
 Edwards AFB, CA
 El Segundo, CA
 Los Angeles, CA
 March AFB, CA
 Travis AFB, CA
 Vandenberg AFB, CA
 Air Force Academy, CO
 Buckley AFB, CO
 Cheyenne Mountain AFB, CO
 Colorado Springs, CO
 Peterson AFB, CO
 Schriever AFB, CO
 Dover AFB, DE
 Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 Cape Canaveral, FL
 Cape Canaveral AFS, FL
 Eglin AFB, FL
 Homestead AFB, FL
 Hurlburt Field, FL
 MacDill AFB, FL
 Patrick AFB, FL
 Tyndall AFB, FL
 Dobbins AFB, GA
 Moody AFB, GA
 Robins AFB, GA
 Hickam AFB, HI
 Pearl Harbor, HI
 Mountain Home AFB, ID
 Scott AFB, IL
 Grissom AFB, IN
 McConnell AFB, KS
 Barksdale AFB, LA
 Andrews AFB, MD
 Linthicum Heights, MD
 Hanscom AFB, MA
 Westover Air Reserve Base, MA
 Selfridge ANG Base, MI
 Columbus AFB, MS
 Keesler AFB, MS
 Whiteman AFB, MO
 Malmstrom AFB, MT
 Offutt AFB, NE
 Nellis AFB, NV
 Fort Dix, NJ
 Lakehurst, NJ
 McGuire AFB, NJ
 Cannon AFB, NM
 Holloman AFB, NM
 Kirtland AFB, NM
 Niagara Falls, NY
 Pope AFB, NC
 Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 Grand Forks AFB, ND
 Minot AFB, ND
 Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 Youngstown, OH
 Youngstown, OH
 Altus AFB, OK
 Tinker AFB, OK
 Vance AFB, OK
 Greater Pittsburgh Airport, PA
 Pittsburgh, PA
 Charleston AFB, SC
 Shaw AFB, SC
 Ellsworth AFB, SD
 Arnold AFB, TN
 Dyess AFB, TX
 Fort Sam Houston, TX
 Goodfellow AFB, TX
 Kelly AFB, TX
 Lackland AFB, TX
 Laughlin AFB, TX
 Randolph AFB, TX
 San Antonio, TX
 Sheppard AFB, TX
 Hill AFB, UT
 Alexandria, VA
 Arlington, VA
 Dahlgren, VA
 Fort Eustis, VA
 Langley AFB, VA
 Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 Fairchild AFB, WA
 Warren AFB, WY
2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
3.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
4.
I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 Yes
 No
5.
Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 Yes
 No
6.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service. Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316? -OR- Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch? -OR- Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 Yes
 No
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
0810-11/14-CIVILENG
.
ALL APPLICANTS MUST COMPLETE THIS SECTION. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for Civil Engineer, GS-0810 position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Qualifications Requirement for the GS-0810 position. PLEASE SELECT ONLY ONE RESPONSE.
 I have earned a professional engineering degree. To be acceptable, the curriculum must: (1) be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I have a Combination of education and experience -- college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration -- Current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. 2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. Applicants who have passed the EIT examination and have completed all the requirements for either (a) a bachelor's degree in engineering technology (BET) from an accredited college of university that included 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, or (b) a BET from a program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) may be rated eligible for certain engineering positions at GS-5. Eligibility is limited to positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of the engineering technology program. Applicants for positions that involve highly technical research, development, or similar functions requiring an advanced level of competence in basic science must meet the basic requirements in paragraph A. Because of the diversity in kind and quality of BET programs, graduates of other BET programs are required to complete at least 1 year of additional education or highly technical work experience of such nature as to provide reasonable assurance of the possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for professional engineering competence. The adequacy of this background must be demonstrated by passing the EIT examination. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum as described in paragraph A. 4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I do not meet the requirements listed in A or B, above.
.
ALL APPLICANTS MUST COMPLETE THIS SECTION. This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic experience and/or education needed to qualify for this Civil Engineer, GS-0810 position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS ITEM WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
2.
From the description below, select the response that best represents your education and/or experience as a Civil Engineer, GS-0810-11 position. SELECT ONLY ONE LETTER.
 I have at least one year of professional engineering experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service or in another equivalent pay system, performing such duties as participating in design work for new construction, renovations, and improvements to real property facilities, including utility systems, small, routine projects or portions of large, complex projects; analyze programmed projects for development of design criteria, participate in technical review of design calculations, analyses, drawings, and specifications; prepare project time schedules and costs estimates; prepares or participates in the preparation of architect and engineer (A&E) statements of work; reviews A&E design calculations, costs estimates, analyses, drawings and specifications to ensure compliance with project requirements; and use computer/computer aided software, etc., to solve engineering problems. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT
 I have three years of progressively higher level graduate level education leading to a Ph.D. or a Ph.D, or equivalent doctoral degree in Civil Engineering. YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT
 I do not meet the criteria listed in A or B above, but I do have a combination of qualifying graduate-level education and experience as described above. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT AND YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT
 I do not meet any of the qualifying criteria listed in A, B, C, or D as described above.
3.
From the description below, select the response that best represents your education and/or experience as a Civil Engineer, GS-0810-12 position. SELECT ONLY ONE LETTER.
 I have at least one year of professional engineering experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 in the Federal service or in another equivalent pay system that demonstrates my ability to provide project management services for infrastructure maintenance, construction, and improvements for a diverse industrial complex or military installation or comparable entity including substantial multi-phase new construction, renovation, and improvement projects for a variety of real property facilities; plan projects that involve substantial infrastructure maintenance and improvements; etc. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT
 I do not meet any of the qualifying criteria described in A above.
4.
From the description below, select the response that best represents your experience as a Civil Engineer, GS-0810-13 position. SELECT ONLY ONE LETTER.
 I have at least one year of professional engineering experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service or in another equivalent pay system, performing duties that demonstrate my ability to produce detailed designs, drawings, and construction documentation; originate, assess, and provide advice on concrete and reinforcing designs, engineering drawings, hydraulic designs, and soil and foundation mechanics; negotiate cost of minor changes with contractor representatives; and anticipate, evaluate, and resolve problems and issues affecting the quality, scheduling, budgeting, or progress of work performed in completing projects; etc. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT
 I do not meet any of the qualifying criteria described in A above.
5.
From the description below, select the response that best represents your experience as a Civil Engineer, GS-0810-14 position. SELECT ONLY ONE LETTER.
 I have at least one year of professional engineering experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service or in another equivalent pay system, performing duties such as the design, review and/or approval of all civil design features of assigned civil works and/or military projects; preparation of feasibility and engineering studies, site plan, preliminary and final design and planning documents for civil phases of construction projects, which may include hospitals, communications system, electrical power facilities, airfields, sewage and waste treatment, and disposal facilities, family housing, etc.; provide advice and guidance on diversified engineering problems and technical expertise covering modifications, review and interpret engineering data, criteria, and higher headquarter's policy and regulations pertinent to civil engineering designing and construction etc. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THIS STATEMENT
 I do not meet any of the qualifying criteria described in A above.
6.
From the description below, select the response that best represents your experience as a Civil Engineer, GS-0810-15 position. SELECT ONLY ONE LETTER &nbsp;
 I have at least one year of professional engineering experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service or equivalent pay system having working knowledge of related scientific and engineering fields such as civil, structural, mechanical, and materials, capable of applying new developments and experienced judgement to solve novel or obscure problems; ability to extend and modify existing techniques; and ability to develop new approaches for use by other technical experts in providing structurally sound an secure facilities and infrastructure to protect and support military forces.
 I do not have the specialized experience listed in A above.
.
ALL APPLICANTS MUST COMPLETE THIS SECTION. As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may result in not selecting you or disciplinary action to include termination (or you may be barred from applying for future Federal vacancies). Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of education and/or experience.
7.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating will be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
