Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Are you fluent in speaking and reading Spanish? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience conducting research in the nationality laws of the United States. Answer to this question is required Published in peer review journal. Created working papers or research reports. Completed a dissertation. Completed a master's thesis. Presented paper(s) at professional conferences. Written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 5 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 6 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required Published in peer reviewed journal. Created working papers or research reports. Completed a dissertation. Completed a master's thesis. Presented paper(s) at professional conferences. Written policy position papers / briefs. None of the above 7 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 8 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 9 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa, passport and/or immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa, passport and/or immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa, passport and/or immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa, passport and/or immigrations issues or have published on these subjects. 11 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Research and/or development grant proposals Peer reviewed papers (e.g., journal articles, book chapters) Standardized reports Policy / Position Papers (e.g., briefing paper) Formal Correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology Papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.