Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience performing plumbing and pipefitting duties with minimal supervision? Such experience would have ensured proper flow, operation, pressure, drainage, and sanitary conditions of piping systems including domestic hot and cold water; fire sprinkler; irrigation; tempered water; drain, waste, and vent; fountain display; etc. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems. 4 Have you performed trouble shooting tasks on steam traps? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have&nbsp;experience using an electronic Building Automation System (BAS) to remotely operate, monitor and manage commercial plumbing systems to include pumps, heaters, valves, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 In which trades have you studied or worked? Answer to this question is required Plumbing Pipefitting Sprinkler fitting Construction Electrician None of the above Grade: 11 1 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have&nbsp;experience using the BAS system for the following? Answer to this question is required Troubleshoot Start/stop systems Verify operating parameters Make adjustment to meet building requirements None of the above 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to backflow devices? Answer to this question is required I understand how backflow devices function but do not have hands-on experience with them. I assisted more senior workers with installing backflow devices. I installed backflow devices and tested the assembly. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience ensuring code compliance during installation and inspection of steel and/or copper Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC) sprinkler systems in new and/or retrofitted buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining plumbing/piping systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of plumbing/piping systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with maintaining plumbing/piping systems under direct supervision from others. I have independently maintained plumbing/piping systems. I have trained others on the procedures for performing plumbing/piping work. None of the above. 2 I have independently set pipe routes, without assistance from a senior worker or supervisor. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Which codes/standards have you applied while completing coursework or on-the-job tasks? Answer to this question is required International Plumbing Code NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) codes and standards ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) standards and guidelines None of the above 4 On which topics or theories have you completed coursework or on the job training? Answer to this question is required Valve types and purposes Fittings (PVC, copper, steel) Plumbing mathematics Piping layout Irrigation head types Water filters Catch basins Diverters Irrigation control valves Low voltage control valves None of the above 5 In which industries have you performed pipefitting work? Answer to this question is required Commercial Industrial Residential None of the above 6 Select all statements in which you have experience, demonstrating your ability to work independently, make decisions, plan operations, show job responsibility, and exercise initiative in the performance of pipefitting work. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed complex pipefitting problems and arrived at an effective solution. Independently planned and performed work involving the installation, modification, and repair of new and existing low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment. Independently traced various malfunction indications through the systems to locate the source of the deficiency; analyzed and resolved the problem. Aligned piping sections, made proper connections, changed motorized valves, packed valves, connected fixtures including utility fixtures. Shut down or sectioned off boiler piping systems, operating controls, pumps, and related equipment in order to complete pipefitting tasks. Repaired leaks following oral or written instructions, supplemented by blueprints or other technical information. None of the above. 7 Which response best describes your highest level of experience using pipefitting blueprints? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience using blueprints. I understand how pipefitting blueprints are used but cannot interpret them without guidance from more senior workers. I provide my initial interpretation of pipefitting blueprints and confirm with a more senior worker on the accuracy of my interpretation before performing work. I independently interpret and follow pipefitting blueprints. 8 Which resources have you interpreted and applied with help from others? Answer to this question is required Written call assignments Building plans/floor plans Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturers specifications Blueprints Policies and procedures None of the above 9 Which fixtures have you installed, assembled, or rebuilt?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Turf irrigation heads and valves Eyewash stations Water-closet fixtures such as toilets and urinals Drinking fountains Water faucets None of the above 10 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Landscape irrigation piping Fire hydrant and mains Black flow drains and valves Ornamental water features and fountains Reflecting pools Storm drains Sump pumps Sewage ejector pumps Low and Medium pressure steam stations None of the above 11 Which pipefitter tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining the proper piping material and schedule to be installed Determining the proper fitting(s) to be installed Installing steam traps Soldering pipe connections Repairing leaking pipes Changing broken control valves None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.