Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to develop, evaluate, and implement training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for emergency communications coordination. ** Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, &amp; implementation of training &amp; technical concepts, policies, &amp; procedures for emergency communications. In doing so, performed the following: 1) prepared &amp; delivered timely emergency communication services to a varied audience; 2) monitored &amp; tracked security events, threads, alerts, warnings, and incidents; 3) analyzed, assessed, &amp; reported critical information to support situational awareness &amp; timely decision-making in complex environments; 4) provided oral &amp; written briefings to key stakeholders on operational readiness &amp;/or situational awareness regarding threats, incidents, &amp; hazards; 5) prepared &amp; maintained up-to-date standard operating procedures for emergency communications; &amp; 6) maintained communications across groups &amp; agencies to exchange safety information. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for emergency communications coordination. In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY performed ALL of the above tasks. Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for emergency communications coordination. In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY or as PART OF A TEAM, performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for emergency communications coordination. In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY or as PART OF A TEAM, performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to plan, organize, and manage a complex emergency management program. ** Demonstrated experience in planning, organizing, and managing a complex emergency management program. Experience entails: 1) designing and coordinating tabletop, functional, and full-scale exercises to determine agency or organization capacity to implement emergency plans; 2) authoring evaluations of emergency operations exercises as well as medical emergency drills and exercises; 3) managing the collection and analysis of data gathered during exercises; 4) maintaining up-to-date knowledge of federal, state, and local emergency response plans; and 5) coordinating planning committees for reviewing and refining policy guidance directives. Answer to this question is required Accomplished agency-wide strategic and operational emergency management goals through executing ALL of the above tasks. Accomplished agency-wide strategic and operational emergency management goals through executing FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Accomplished agency-wide strategic and operational emergency management goals through executing THREE (3) the above tasks. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Experience with emergency management software, public address systems, and mass alert warning systems in support of an emergency management program. ** Experience with emergency management software, public address systems, and mass alert warning systems in support of an emergency management program. Systems may include: 1) WebEOC; 2) mass alert systems (Blackberry AtHoc; Everbridge, Send Word Now, and AlertMedia); 3) ArcGIS; 4) alert beacons; 5) message boards; 6) video monitoring systems; 7) two-way radio systems; and/or 8) emergency call centers. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in leveraging SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above, including items 2), 4), 6), 7). Demonstrated experience in leveraging FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above, including items 2), 4), 6), 7). Demonstrated experience in leveraging FOUR (4) of the above, including items 2), 4), 6), 7). None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. ** Wrote a variety of cogent, accurate, and well organized documents related to emergency preparedness. Examples include: 1) emergency preparedness plans (e.g., exercise plans, training plans), 2) emergency preparedness policies and procedures, 3) reports (e.g., status reports, and after actions), 4) executive summaries, 5) training materials, and 6) correspondence. Answer to this question is required Independently authored ALL of the above documents in support of an agency wide emergency preparedness program. Independently authored FIVE (5) of the above documents, including 1) and 2), in support of an agency wide emergency preparedness program. Independently authored FOUR (4) of the above documents, including 1) and 2), in support of an agency wide emergency preparedness program. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Collaborated closely with an agency or organization's mid-level staff and external agencies in resolving significant problems and issues. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, led highly complex projects related to emergency preparedness that required collaboration with individuals from multiple disciplines and work groups inside and outside the organization to ensure emergency preparedness of an organization Took initiative to understand similarities and differences in views/goals and handled differing viewpoints among group/team members with poise by negotiating, cooperating, and being tactful. Frequently collaborated on complex or moderately complex projects related to emergency preparedness that required collaboration with individuals from multiple disciplines and work groups inside and outside the organization to ensure emergency preparedness of an organization. Took initiative to understand similarities and differences in views/goals and handled differing viewpoints among group/team members with poise by negotiating, cooperating, and being tactful. Routinely collaborated on moderately complex projects related to emergency preparedness that required collaboration with individuals from own area of responsibility. Took initiative to understand similarities and differences in views/goals and handled differing viewpoints among group/team members with poise by negotiating, cooperating, and being tactful. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).