Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in analyzing documents and advising supervisors and management on employee relations cases that involve formal reprimands, suspensions and other actions of similar substantial consequence and repercussion (e.g., fraud, alcoholism, discrimination, workplace violence? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Please describe your highest level of experience in providing management advice and guidance regarding employee conduct issues. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Please identify your level of experience in researching, analyzing, and assisting management on administrative grievances and adverse actions. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 In which of the areas that follow have you provided advisory services on employee relations matters? Answer to this question is required Adverse actions Performance Management Conduct Performance based reduction in grade or removal Discipline Benefits Work / Life programs and services None of the above 8 Select the statement(s) that BEST describe the technical knowledge you have provided to managers and supervisors on employee relation matters. Answer to this question is required I have advised management on appropriate procedures and practices involved in developing employee performance plans, conducting appraisal interviews, and submitting and justifying employee award nominations. have identified due process rights under applicable laws, policy, and negotiated language to provide appropriate notice to both the manager and the employee about the employee`s right and possible forums for review. I have developed and presented employee relations information for briefings, meetings, conferences, or training seminars (i.e., conduct, discipline, performance management, ethics, leave and grievance procedures). I have served as a technical advisor at MSPB or EEOC hearings. I have composed detailed written documents for management to use in effecting disciplinary actions and adverse actions. I have prepared Agency case files to be submitted to MSPB. I have developed local human resources policy for employee relations. None of the above. 9 Please select the choice that BEST describes your experience gathering facts related to a problem or issue, analyzing them, and making supportable recommendations for resolution of the problem or issue: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 10 Select each program area in which you have program advisory and/or implementation experience: Answer to this question is required Disciplinary and adverse actions Unacceptable performance actions Performance management programs Leave administration programs Employee assistance programs Violence in the workplace programs Employee recognition programs Federal Benefits programs Federal Retirement programs Personnel Security programs Workers Compensation programs None of the above 11 Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing, or administering an important program and/or significant program segment: Answer to this question is required I have issued technically authoritative interpretations and decisions regarding laws, regulations and program policies relating to the program. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies, and goals. I have set the short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work. I have set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws. I have developed and approved program procedures and practices. I have promoted program(s) and provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials. None of the above. 12 Please select the choice that BEST describes your experience providing frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommending solutions to problems: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 13 Which of the following describes your level of experience providing advisory services on Human Resource matters? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Do you have experience developing and implementing human resource policies and procedures and advising senior level officials on such matters? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 15 Please identify the employee relations functions which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial misconduct cases. I have experience in developing and implementing new or enhanced methods tailored to the agency mission and structure. I have experience developing and presenting agency case strategy before third parties. I have experience in coordinating consultations with medical and vocational rehabilitation specialists on topics such as reasonable accommodation. I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial performance cases. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.