Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education AND specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choices that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self-instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have participated in discussions with persons and/or organizations whose licensing issues may / may not meet legal and regulatory requirements. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above. 2 Select the actions you have taken on the job in instructing, consulting with and/or advising others: Answer to this question is required Instructed industry or other entities subject to federal laws or regulations on how to prepare certain documents (e.g., how to write an effective disclosure from a defense company): Educated foreign embassies or other international entities on pertinent programs and policies (e.g., end use monitoring programs). Provided expert guidance on policies, practices, procedures, and/or interpretation of U. S. laws and regulations to affected parties on compliance matters. Provided information and interpretive guidance on intelligence trends indicating suspicious or potential diversion or misuse of U.S. technology. Delivered formal lecture or instruction on export control compliance in a classroom or conference setting. None of the above. 3 Select the planning and monitoring tasks you have performed in a compliance or enforcement setting: Answer to this question is required Maintained a `watch list` with regular updates, changes or additional information on individuals or companies suspected or confirmed to have violated the laws and regulations. Monitored specified individuals and companies, continually assessing the status of compliance, evaluated developments affected by compliance activities and recommended appropriate action. Developed case specific questions in preparation for an investigation. Developed and maintained a system for monitoring to ensure compliance with pertinent laws and regulations. Developed and implemented compliance or investigative strategies, plans, and/or procedures. Developed or created new tools or processes to improve a monitoring system. None of the above. 4 Select the analysis or problem solving tasks you have performed as a regular part of the job in previous positions you held: Answer to this question is required Analyzed a large amount of inter-related and unrelated facts and opinions to obtain relevant information. Analyzed case files, documentation, reports and official orders. Collected, reviewed and/or analyzed unclassified and classified intelligence data. Made recommendations to improve or ensure conformance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, standards or guidelines. Monitored the status of cases, programs, or other official matters and reviewed, audited or evaluated in order to ensure requirements or recommendations were implemented. None of the above. 5 Select the actions you have taken or accomplishments that reflect your capabilities in analysis or problem solving: Answer to this question is required Applied a formal and disciplined approach to research and investigation assignments. Promoted a greater degree of evidenced based decision making in team projects. Analyzed similar and divergent information in order to reach a summary conclusion. Took action to probe more deeply and verify apparent contradictory information in order to ensure accurate conclusions. Produced final products that were factually based, detailed and accurate. Recognized by colleagues or supervisors colleagues for producing final products that exhibit precision, accuracy, discipline, internal consistency and integrity. None of the above. 6 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 7 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.