Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service interpreting and applying passport / visa laws and regulations that demonstrates knowledge of immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. Qualifying specialized experience may have been gained in the work such as: developing, examining, investigating, adjudicating, or authorizing claims arising under the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 6 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 7 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 8 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education, training, or experience with U.S. immigration laws? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in with U.S. immigration laws. I have formal training or education in or with U.S. immigration laws. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa and immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa and immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa and immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa issues or have been published on these subjects. 10 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience 11 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 12 From the following choice(s), select the Federal departments and agencies that you have knowledge of, and experience in, working with on terrorist travel patterns: Answer to this question is required Terrorist Screening Center Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Department of Justice (DOJ) National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) None of the above 13 Please select the answer that BEST describes your highest level of experience formulating and/or executing counterterrorism policy: Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education or training in formulating and executing counterterrorism policy. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in formulating and executing counterterrorism policy. I have not formulated counterterrorism policy, but have executed these policies under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I routinely and independently execute counterterrorism policy and I formulate these policies under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. The formulation and execution of counterterrorism policy has been a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely and usually independently. I work closely with the supervisor OR a senior colleague in formulating counterterrorism policy on the more complex matters. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.