Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 2 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 8 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select from the list below each of the investigative techniques you have successfully employed in the course of your official duties. Answer to this question is required Interviews / interrogations Mail cover Technical surveillance Foot surveillance Record checks Checks of computerized databases Comparison of known photographs of a subject to questioned photographs of a subject Comparison of known documents to questioned documents Link analysis program to establish relationships and graphic representations of those relationships Sworn statements Properly used Miranda, Garrity, or Kalkines warnings Arrest warrants Search warrants Vehicle surveillance Confidential informants Undercover operations Subpoenas None of the above 2 What experience do you have using manual or software systems to analyze data in an investigation? Answer to this question is required I have training but have not applied my knowledge. I have employed manual means to chart organizations. I have used link analysis software to detect and display organizational relationships in criminal investigations. I have manually constructed timelines. I have used software to construct timelines. I have used software for data mining. I have searched criminal databases. I have used software to identify outstanding warrants. I have used software to identify terrorists. I have used software for statistical reporting. I have used software to organize and analyze financial information. None of the above. 3 From the following list of problem solving activities, please identify those you have performed at work. Answer to this question is required Identified an issue and its cause. Anticipated a problem and implemented a procedure to avoid the problem. Recommended an improvement in procedures that would help avoid future problems. Worked closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. None of the above. 4 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to make sound decisions related to gathering of intelligence information; developing alternatives solutions; evaluating alternatives; and selecting a course of action? Answer to this question is required I have limited education or work experience applying standard procedures to identify and solve routine problems. I frequently refer complex issues to a superior. I have some work experience in applying conventional and unconventional procedures to solve problems and/or determine a course of action. I have assisted others in the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations, consulting with others and superiors when appropriate. I have a moderate amount of work experience in employing conventional and unconventional procedures in solving problems or selecting a course of action. I have on occasion independently analyzed problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and management preferences before providing solutions. I have extensive work experience in employing a variety of approaches to solving problems or selecting a course of action. I have routinely and independently analyzed problems or situations, and considered the impact, rules, regulations and management preferences before providing solutions. I have been recognized for exhibiting confidence that my proposed solution or course of action is the best possible choice. None of the above. 5 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One on One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 6 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above 7 From the list of investigative writings below, select those that you have personally drafted. Answer to this question is required Interview write up Prosecutorial summary Report of Investigation Memo of conversation / Note to file / spot report Affidavit in support of criminal complaint Affidavit in support of a search warrant Article for trade publication Tactical plan Investigative plan None of the above 8 Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings for presentation to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.