Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 2 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 4 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 5 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Developed financial data to support the negotiation of reimbursable agreements. Estimated the recommended reimbursement levels for services to be provided. Written conditions included in Memorandums of Agreement and Understanding (MOAs/MOUs). Negotiated agreements within the agency. Negotiated agreements between agencies / organizations. Negotiated third party contracts with service providers. Managed services and costs provided under a reimbursable agreement. None of the above. 6 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied your knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes None of the above 7 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 8 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above 9 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.