Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience ensuring the accuracy of supply inventories: Answer to this question is required I have not ensured the accuracy of supply inventories or supply orders. I have matched inventory records to physical inventory to check accuracy. I have identified inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. I have resolved inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. 4 Do you have experience receiving and storing supplies in a warehouse environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience arranging supplies in a warehouse. Answer to this question is required I have developed storage plans and determined the best location for supplies. I have followed established storage plans and stock rotation guidelines to arrange supplies. I have determined where to store supplies with assistance from a supervisor. None of the above. 6 Have you used catalogues to identify the correct supplies to order? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Do you have experience packing and labeling supplies for identification while in storage? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which equipment have you used to stock items? Answer to this question is required Hand trucks Walk jacks Pallet jacks Ladders None of the above 9 How have you maintained the cleanliness of a storage area? Answer to this question is required Swept/mopped floors Dusted storage shelves Inspected stock for leakage None of the above 10 Which factors have you used to determine the location for stock items? Answer to this question is required Frequency of use Item size Item shape Ordering department None of the above 11 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers while stocking items. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about stocking procedures. I have explained stocking procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 12 Which equipment have you used to move or haul items (e.g., furniture, construction debris, cleaning materials)? Answer to this question is required Pallet jacks Forklifts Utility carts Dollies / Hand trucks Furniture gliders / sliders None of the above 13 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducting inventory of stock. Answer to this question is required I have not participated in stock inventory. I have counted and recorded the quantity of items. I have identified misplaced items during an inventory. I have checked inventory discrepancies against records to identify errors. 14 Which materials have you stocked? Answer to this question is required Plumbing supplies Electrical supplies Electronics Paint Cleaning chemicals First aid supplies Hygiene products None of the above 15 Which tasks have you performed to account for tools and equipment used on the job? Answer to this question is required I have logged the type and amount of materials used. I have logged the condition of equipment used. I have returned items to their proper location. I have maintained awareness of the location of tools and equipment while working. I have reported lost / malfunctioning equipment to a senior employee. I have cleaned equipment after use. None of the above. 16 Which safety practices have you used to stock items? Answer to this question is required Determined whether a spotter is needed Checked the weight of the load against the capacity of moving equipment (e.g., pallet jack, forklift) Set up barriers to limit access to storage areas (e.g., caution tape, orange cones) Followed safe lifting procedures to move items None of the above 17 Which personal protective equipment do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Hard hat Safety shoes Safety gloves Reflective vests None of the above 18 Which instructions do you have experience reading and interpreting to move stock? Answer to this question is required Backing procedures for motorized equipment Safe lifting procedures Special handling procedures for fragile items Special handling procedures for chemicals Stock plans Bin labels None of the above 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.