Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please describe your demonstrated experience in managing physical security programs, identify and security risk management programs. This should include experience in formulating and implementing strategic priorities, goal setting, establishing metrics and reporting protocols. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your expert knowledge of security and physical security related concepts, practices and procedures as well as Federal security guidelines, requirements and regulations as they relate to cultural property protection, facility security, anti-terrorism risk mitigation, risk assessment methodologies, management, and mitigation best practices, procedures, and policies. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your expert knowledge of construction practices involving electrical and mechanical work, state-of-the-art security technologies in areas of electronic security systems, computerized security systems, access control systems, CCTV, communication systems, security monitoring and control systems, blast hardening and mitigation, anti-ram vehicle barriers, X-ray and screening detection technology, and Chemical/Biological/Radiological attack prevention and mitigation. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your skill in building cooperative relationships between colleagues and organizations within your oversight, and with stakeholders inside and outside the Institution. This includes explaining positions/solutions, both orally and in writing, and gaining acceptance by museum and/or research facility colleagues and customers/managers at all levels.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Please provide your skills in leading, supervising, and managing a multi-disciplined and talented workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale as well as developing , attracting, retaining, and motivating employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.