Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please indicate the countries in Latin America and the Caribbean region for which you have work experience in the analysis of foreign policy: Answer to this question is required Brazil Mexico Chile Argentina Colombia Peru Uruguay Ecuador Guatemala El Salvador Nicaragua Panama Costa Rica Dominican Republic Honduras Trinidad & Tobago Barbados Jamaica Venezuela Paraguay Bolivia Haiti None of the above 2 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at preparing written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in preparing written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, under the supervision of a more senior officer. I have routinely and independently written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, with no supervision necessary and with very few edits from others more senior to me. I am highly skilled at writing briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, and training and supervising others who are tasked with this work. 3 Which of the following BEST describes your depth of experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working with foreign assistance programs / projects, but no experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects, but have not worked with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I am highly experienced in working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have trained others in this capacity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in coordinating interagency policy or policy documents. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents, having trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on issues where there are conflicting positions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 Select one description that BEST represents your experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above 7 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience in preparing a variety of correspondence including briefing materials for senior level officials? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience coaching and training others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coaching and/or training other staff members. I have formal education coaching and/or training but have not yet performed it on the job. I have coached and/or trained new staff members on how to perform their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others who were having difficulty performing some aspects of their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others to develop them for future assignments or positions. 9 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience training and developing new or junior employees? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with training and developing new or junior employees. I have assisted in training and developing new or junior employees. I have trained and developed new or junior employees under close supervision. I have independently trained and developed new or junior employees. I am considered an expert in training and developing new or junior employees. I have trained others in this activity and/or been consulted as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.