Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 3 Which of the following registration collections accountability functions do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Collections insurance. Managing items placed in the custody of a museum. Preparing and undertaking an annual inventory of collections. Moving items and tracking movement within a museum. Using bar codes or other automated codes to track museum collections. Tracking objects in automated inventory database. Preparing, managing, and/or updating policy for collections access. Securing and protecting collections against fire, theft, vandalism, natural disasters, or temperature and humidity extremes. Reviewing security requirements for exhibitions. None of the above. 4 Which of the following functions for collections acquisitions, deaccessions, and disposals do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and/or updated a collections management policy. I have provided senior management with statistics concerning acquisitions, accessions, deaccessions, and loans. I have established title or ownership for items and prepared deeds of gifts. I have acquired items for a museum’s collections. I have accessioned items into a museum’s collections. I have assigned lot numbers and accession numbers to objects and methods for numbering different types of objects. I have deaccessioned items from a museum’s collections. I have enabled the repatriation of items under the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). I have packed, shipped, and unpacked museum collections items. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or training and/or education in managing large/varied collections or a complex of several object or art collections requiring the development, establishment, and administration of operating policies and long-range planning for the expansion, improvement, use, security, and stewardship of collections of great monetary, scientific, or historic significance? Answer to this question is required I have completed college level courses and focused on museum/cultural institutions registration processes or collections management. I have experience in the museum/cultural institutions registration processes or collections management I have completed graduate level courses focusing on museum studies with a focus on registration processes, collections management, or the stewardship of museum collections I have experience and training in the legal issues of museum administration, ethics, collections care, and similar professional training. I have completed graduate-level courses in museum studies supplemented with on-going professional training courses such as Legal Issues in Museum Administration, the ALI-ABA course of study on museum ethics, collections care training, or similar professional training. I have completed graduate level courses in museum studies supplemented with on-going professional training courses such as Legal Issues in Museum Administration, the ALI-ABA course of study on museum ethics, collections care training, or similar professional training. I am also a member of a regional museum professional organization such as the national Alliance for American Museums, the Museum Computer Network, or similar organizations. I have experience in museum studies, legal issues in museum administration, museum ethics, and collections care. I am also a member of a regional museum professional organization such as the national Alliance for American Museums, the Museum Computer Network, or similar organizations. None of the above. 6 Which of the following functions for describing and cataloging collections in a collections information system and reporting upon the condition of objects do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cataloguing objects directly into an automated collections information system. Measuring objects. Describing objects. Preparing a condition report. Identifying and documenting cultural affiliations for items and their creators. Identifying and documenting component materials for ethnographic or archaeological collections. Identifying and documenting techniques of manufacture for ethnographic or archaeological collections. Documenting copyright and related rights. Implementing/applying standards for a collections related information system. None of the above. 7 Which of the following reflects your knowledge of Native American culture, history, and art for identifying and documenting Native American cultural affiliations, cultural practices, techniques, and materials for ethnographic collections originating in the western hemisphere (North, Central, and South America)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have completed college level course(s) in Native American studies. I have experience working with Native Americans in a museum setting. I have worked in a museum with large and diverse Native American collections (over 10,000 objects from throughout the Western Hemisphere). I have assisted Native Americans in working with and using museum collections. None of the above. 8 Which of the following functions for managing the loan process do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Arranging insurance for loans. Managing outgoing loans. Preparing and evaluating Facility Reports for loan requests. Managing incoming loans. Requesting CITES permits. Packing items for loans. Developing specifications for crates for museum items. Arranging for the international shipment of collections items. Assessing collections security requirements for a middle-to-large size museum. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience managing temporary, traveling museum loan exhibitions and internal in-house exhibitions including working on all packing, shipping, insurance, and courier arrangements? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have been a museum exhibitions registrar for a travelling exhibition that included domestic loans with courier requirements. As a museum registrar I have managed domestic and international temporary and traveling loan exhibitions including loans from multiple venues. I have been the registrar for travelling exhibitions and in-house exhibitions that included foreign and domestic loans from multiple venues with courier requirements. As a museum registrar I have supported both travelling exhibitions and in-house exhibitions that included foreign and domestic loans from multiple venues with courier and CITES requirements. None of the above. 10 Which of the following leadership functions in projects have you successfully led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing and completing work. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead and/or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have resolved complaints from employees and ensured that staff are appropriately developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate`s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and provided recognition and reward for effective performance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.