Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 All librarians must meet the requirements for professional education in library science or possess equivalent experience and education. I have: A. Completion of 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree; or B.&nbsp; A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Knowledge of library and information science principles, concepts, tools and techniques to perform library functions and carry out library programs.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information science principles, concepts, tools and techniques to perform library functions and carry out library programs. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library and information science applied to more than one major library function or program for a large or very specialized library environment or organization (e.g. cataloged items according to library standards; searched for items in library catalogs and electronic databases for purposes of acquisition or research; provided reference services including directing users to appropriate sources in other libraries and organizations). Demonstrated extensive knowledge of principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library science and information applied to one specialized library function or program (e.g. developed knowledge of terminology and research trends in a subject area and used relevant databases to provide reference services). Demonstrated knowledge of the principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library science applied to established library functions or programs (e.g. applied established practices and techniques to locate source material in response to reference questions). None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies.** Utilized knowledge of trends in library and information science, integrated library systems and other emerging library technologies to execute library functions and provide customer service. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute significant library operations and programs (e.g. assisted in the implementation of an upgrade or new module to an integrated library system.) Applied a high level of knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute existing library operations and programs (e.g. improved upon existing library systems through the creation or application of new techniques or tools, such as the development of new macros to improve upon library functions or services.) Applied knowledge of basic integrated library systems and library technologies in existing library operations and programs (e.g. assisted patrons or staff with troubleshooting technological problems.) None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to provide research and reference services.** Provides research and reference services to and for patrons inside and outside of a library who are blind or print disabled focusing primarily on special format resources. Services are rendered by phone, email, and virtual reference platforms. This includes exercising initiative, tact and flexibility in meeting the informational needs of patrons with varying levels of familiarity, experience, and subject expertise. Answer to this question is required Provided the full range of research and reference services to and for patrons, inside and outside of a large research, academic, special or public library in multiple fields or areas of specialization, specifically in the areas of blindness and print disabilities. Provided research and reference services focused primarily on special format resources. Used a variety of databases to search and fulfill reference requests. Provided a wide range of research and reference services to and for patrons, inside and outside of a large research, academic, special or public library in multiple fields or areas of specialization. Used a variety of databases to search and fulfill reference requests. Provided various research and reference services to and for patrons for a research, academic, special or public library. Used a variety of databases to search and fulfill reference requests. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to analyze, plan, develop and/or execute library programs and projects. Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects. Answer to this question is required Managed multi-faceted programs involving several functional areas. Served as a project leader, team leader, or chairperson for one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference library services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or other library services. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. Managed one or more multi-faceted programs that crossed organizational or functional lines. Served in working groups, task forces, and/or committees assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or other library services. Participated in one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or other library services. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to provide consultation or liaison services. Provided consultation, performed liaison duties, and maintained work relationships to help solve problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange and provide information and knowledge to people inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with librarians, cooperative partners, and other specialists within and outside the organization in order to share resources and information in librarianship and other relevant fields for the purpose of professional development. Conducted tours, workshops, and/or orientation sessions for staff and visitors, and represented the organization at conferences, seminars, and/or exhibits. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and cooperative partners within and outside the organization and provided specialized or technical reference information in librarianship and other relevant fields for the purpose of professional development. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, communicating specialized or technical reference information in a professional and/or an library setting for the purpose of professional development. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).