Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of official travel? Answer to this question is required Coordinating travelers` requirements and / or special needs Assisting with Passport Applications Preparing Travel Itineraries Making hotel / car rental reservations Sending telegrams to relevant embassies for country clearance Creating travel authorizations / close out of travel authorizations Reconciling travel advances Providing on-site support during official visits Serving on advance teams to secure hotel accommodations Resolving complex or high-profile issues Screening volunteer staff for official travel events None of the above 2 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Foreign Government officials Media None of the above 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 4 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical/ quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Desktop publishing None of the above 5 Please select the responses that describe your experience with travel arrangements and authorizations. Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. Made domestic travel reservations/arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Made foreign travel reservations / arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Make travel and hotel reservations for large meetings/conferences. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system. None of the above. 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 7 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 8 From the following list, select the types of decisions you made: Answer to this question is required Hiring Personnel Termination Reorganization Policy Budget formulation Project scope Program initiation and/or termination None of the above 9 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. 10 From the list below select the answer choices that BEST demonstrates your ability to work independently in meeting deadlines and managing priorities: Answer to this question is required Work independently in establishing priorities. Manage time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handle heavy workload while working within tight deadlines. Ensure tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapt behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organize work, determine resource requirements, and assess progress. Ensure program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above. 11 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 12 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Application and compliance with policies and guidance Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.