Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one answer which best describes your work experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 14 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have 1 full year of specialized experience as described. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which statement below best describes your experience in Construction Program management? Answer to this question is required I have had executive responsibility for a capital program or portfolio exceeding $250 million annually, consisting of multiple concurrent projects and multidisciplinary stakeholders. I have managed a capital program or portfolio between $100 million and $250 million annually. I have managed a program consisting of multiple projects with aggregate annual funding between $25 million and $100 million. I have managed individual projects but not a program or portfolio. None of the above 4 Have you directed a multi-year capital program spanning planning, programming, budgeting, design, construction, and project closeout? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following portfolio management functions have you performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Program prioritization Capital planning Portfolio performance management Risk management Resource allocation Executive program review Multi-year forecasting None 6 Which statement best describes your experience establishing and maintaining performance measures, reporting processes, and corrective action procedures for a capital program? Answer to this question is required I established and maintained program performance measures, reporting processes, corrective action procedures, and management controls for a large capital program or portfolio consisting of multiple concurrent projects. I developed and implemented performance reporting processes and management controls for a major program or organization. I monitored performance measures, prepared program reports, and participated in the implementation of corrective actions for program issues. I tracked project performance and reported status information using established procedures developed by others. No experience 7 Which statement best describes your experience establishing management controls for large capital programs? Answer to this question is required I established and implemented program controls, reporting requirements, performance measures, and corrective action processes for a capital program or portfolio consisting of multiple concurrent projects. I implemented program controls and reporting processes for a major program or organization. I used established controls and reporting requirements to monitor projects or activities. No experience 8 Which of the following program oversight responsibilities have you performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Multi-year project scheduling Program performance reporting Program workload forecasting Resource allocation forecasting and management Corrective Action Management Program status reporting to executive leadership Competing program priority management 9 Which statement best describes your experience prioritizing projects when available funding was insufficient to support all requirements? Answer to this question is required I was responsible for evaluating competing projects and recommending program-level funding priorities for executive decision making. I participated in developing and recommending project priorities across a major program. I evaluated project funding needs and provided recommendations to management. I identified project funding requirements but was not involved in prioritization decisions. No experience 10 Which of the following budgeting and programming activities have you performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Budget formulation Budget justification Capital programming Financial forecasting Funding prioritization Funding reprogramming and justification Congressional budget support External budget reporting None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your experience developing multi-year financial forecasts for capital programs? Answer to this question is required I was responsible for developing, validating, and maintaining multi-year financial forecasts for a capital program or portfolio consisting of multiple concurrent projects and funding sources. I developed and maintained multi-year financial forecasts for a major program or organization. I developed project-level cost projections and contributed to program-level forecasting efforts. I assisted in gathering data for budget or forecasting activities. I have no experience with financial forecasting activities. 12 At what level have you presented program recommendations impacting organizational priorities, resource requirements, or capital investments? Answer to this question is required Agency executives, governing boards, OMB, Congress, or equivalent executive leadership. Executive directors or senior executives Division chiefs or mid-level management Team leaders or project managers No experience 13 Which of the following products have you prepared or approved? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Executive decision memoranda Program status briefings Budget justifications Strategic plans Multi-year funding plans Capital program reports Institutional policy recommendations 14 Which statement best describes your experience resolving disagreements among stakeholders regarding program objectives, funding, schedules, or resource allocations? Answer to this question is required I independently negotiated resolutions among senior stakeholders with competing interests and priorities on major programs. I led resolution efforts among multiple organizations or departments. I participated in negotiations and resolution of programmatic conflicts. I referred disagreements to higher management for resolution. No experience 15 Which statement best describes the organization you managed? Answer to this question is required Managed supervisors, program managers, analysts, architects, engineers, or other senior professionals responsible for major organizational functions. Managed a professional staff of more than 20 employees. Managed a professional staff of 10-20 employees. Managed a small professional staff. No supervisory experience 16 Which supervisory responsibilities have you performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performance evaluations Workforce planning Recruitment and selection Employee development Organizational restructuring Succession planning Managing multidisciplinary staffs 17 Which statement best describes your experience managing organizational change within a professional workforce? Answer to this question is required I have led significant organizational change affecting workforce structure, staffing, operations, or mission delivery across a major organization. I have led implementation of significant organizational changes affecting multiple teams or functions. I have participated in planning and implementing organizational changes. I have supported organizational change efforts directed by others. No experience 18 Which of the following improvement initiatives have you led? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Program management systems Workload analysis systems Performance measurement systems Organizational process improvements Program reporting improvements Business process improvements Resource planning improvements 19 Which statement best describes the impact of an organizational improvement you led? Answer to this question is required Resulted in organization-wide improvements affecting multiple programs, offices, or investments. Resulted in improvements across a major program or division. Resulted in improvements within a project or work unit. No experience 20 Which statement best describes your experience establishing organizational standards, methodologies, or management frameworks used by others? Answer to this question is required I developed and implemented organizational standards, methodologies, or management frameworks that were adopted across an organization, division, or portfolio. I developed and implemented standardized procedures or guidance used across multiple programs or functional areas. I developed procedures, templates, guidance documents, or best practices adopted by a work unit or program. I contributed to the development of organizational standards or guidance led by others. No experience Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.