Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 GS-14 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as described under the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. I do not meet the experience requirements. 2 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 5 Check the responses that reflect the types of written information / materials that you prepare: Answer to this question is required Contracts Procurement requests for the acquisition of goods and services Cost estimates Cost benefit analysis Statements of work Agency policies Standard operating procedures Requirement analyses Feasibility studies Correspondence / Memoranda Forms Issue / briefing papers None of the above 6 Do you have experience obtaining a variety of expendable and nonexpendable items and materials through central supply channels, direct purchase or more complex formal procurement processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have developed cost estimates and provided budgetary and financial plan input for costs associated with the procurement and disposal of the following: Answer to this question is required Furniture Equipment Supplies Telecommunication equipment / services Unclassified records / documents Classified records / documents None of the above 8 From the following list, indicate the types of customers that you communicate with on a day-to-day basis in providing support services: Answer to this question is required Senior level agency officials Non government officials Government officials Vendors Customers internal to the organization Customers external to the organization None of the above 9 Indicate the response that best demonstrates the level at which you coordinate support services programs and functions: Answer to this question is required Within subordinate (or field / satellite) organizations such as the subdivisions of any agency, department, military command or corporation. At the agency, Department-wide, or corporate level. Within a major component or division of an agency, Department or corporation such as the Office / Bureau / Division level. At an overseas facility such as an embassy, a consulate, private, international or Federal organization. Immediate work unit. None of the above. 10 In which of the following administrative areas have you supervised or managed support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 11 Check the response that bests describes your level of experience as a project leader: Answer to this question is required I have served as project leader that involved the planning and implementation of major construction projects and major renovations for an agency, a military command, corporation, public or private organization. I have served as a project leader that involved the planning and implementation of a major agency construction project or a majore renovation for an agency, a military command, corporation, public or private organization. I have served as a project leader implementing construction projects or major renovations within a subordinate organization such as the subdivision of an agency, corporation or organization. I have served as a project leader planning and implementing construction projects or a major renovation for a major component of an agency, department, corporation or private organization. I have served as a project leader planning and implementing a construction project for a major renovation of an overseas facility such as an embassy, a consulate, private, international or Federal organization. I have served as a project leader for construction projects that involved a major renovation within my immediate work unit. None of the above. 12 From the following list, check the software applications / systems in which you are proficient: Answer to this question is required Word Processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheet applications (e.g., Excel) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Financial management applications / systems Travel management applications / systems (e.g., Travel Manager, FedTrip) Facilities / space planning applications / systems (e.g. Auto Cad) Property Management applications / systems Database management None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.