Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please indicate which of the following types of activities/ tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. 5 Please identify the following with which you have knowledge or experience. Answer to this question is required Appropriations Law Prompt Payment Act Debt Collection Act (DCIA) Foreign Affairs Manual OMB Circulars Federal Travel Regulations Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) Internal controls Financial oversight / compliance Due diligence reviews None of the above 6 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 7 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used financial or management data to analyze a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted an audit Summarized deficiencies Developed recommendations for system changes Used statistical methods to analyze an issue Resolved discrepancies in an accounting system Analyzed the effectiveness of accounting systems Reconciled differences between financial statements Developed solutions to meet customer needs Developed internal control programs / methods Reconciled general ledger balances None of the above 8 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Research capabilities Analysis capabilities Planning Monitoring response Prioritization Collaboration Accommodation Resolving Conflict Negotiating Compromise Persuasiveness Identifying the need / requirement Establishing parameters Responsiveness None of the above 9 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 10 Please indicate which of the following activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Identifying and resolving complex funding inquiries from automated financial or budgetary systems. Resolving conflicts between program goals, objectives, resource requirements, budgetary policies, objectives, and constraints. Analyzing accounting data from internal and/or external sources to confirm the propriety of charges. Developing indicators to measure program performance. Preparing or recommending annual financial plans to allot funds in support of program objectives. Participating in the negotiation of reimbursement agreements with other public and/or private agencies. Developing recommendations for budgetary adjustments (e.g., reprogramming) to support unanticipated changes in program operations and/or funding. None of the above. 11 Please select the response that best describes your experience with financial management Answer to this question is required I have used accounting principles and procedures within my regular work. I have applied sophisticated financial management procedures to solve complex fiscal, budget and funds control problems. I have supervised and directed the implementation of new accounting and audit procedures in large organizations. I have been a change agent for improved financial management in major organizations facing fiscal and regulatory problems. None of the above. 12 Select from the following list the option that best represents your experience with validating, monitoring, and maintaining accounting transactions and records. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have done this under supervision. I have done this as a member of a team. I have done this independently. I have supervised others. 13 Select from the following list the option that best represents your experience with examining documents to determine if transactions were properly supported in accordance with pertinent laws, policies, procedures and practices. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have done this under supervision. I have done this as a member of a team. I have done this independently. I have supervised others. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.