Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of history, culture, and literature of the Eritrea, Ethiopia, and surrounding region.** Applied knowledge of history, culture, history and civilization of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and surrounding region to provide services, evaluate and develop collections, and/or other professional experiences. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the history, culture, history and civilization of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and surrounding region by providing reference and/or research services, evaluating, AND developing collections requiring knowledge of Ethiopic language and culture. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, history and civilization of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and surrounding region by providing reference and/or research services requiring knowledge of Ethiopic language and culture. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, history and civilization of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and surrounding region in a professional setting or through collegiate or graduate level coursework pertaining to languages and dialects spoken in Ethiopic communities. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to read, write, and communicate in Amharic and English, and a highly desired knowledge of Ge&rsquo;ez, Tigrinya, Afaan Oro.** Communicated professional and/or technical information in Amharic, English, and a highly desired knowledge of Ge'ez, Tigrinya, Afaan Oromo or other African languages, to support a wide range of professional activities including reading, writing, speaking, and/or &lrm;translating. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience communicating professional and/or technical information in Amharic, English, and a highly desired knowledge of Ge'ez, Tigrinya, Afaan Oromo or other African languages, in a professional environment, including reading, writing, speaking, and translating between English and Amharic with the fluency and familiarity of a native or near native speaker. If the language experience described above does not include both English and Amharic, then the language with less experience must be at least a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. Has experience communicating professional and/or technical information in Amharic, English, and a highly desired knowledge of Ge'ez, Tigrinya, Afaan Oromo or other African languages, in a professional environment, including reading, writing, speaking and translating between English and Amharic, research and/or related activities. If the language experience described above does not include both English and Amharic, then the language with less experience must be at least a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. Has experience communicating professional and/or technical information in Amharic, English, and a highly desired knowledge of Ge'ez, Tigrinya, Afaan Oromo or other African languages, as evidenced by completing course work or training at the post-graduate or college level or equivalent, including reading, writing and speaking in English and Amharic. If the language experience described above does not include both English and Amharic, then the language with less experience must be at least a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide reference and research services.** Provided reference and research services by: (1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; (2) evaluating patrons requirements and developing search strategies; (3) identifying and evaluating authoritative data, statistics, and information; (4) evaluating international print and electronic resources for content coverage and trends; (5) monitoring current events; and (6) identifying emerging trends in digital scholarship. Answer to this question is required As a librarian, has extensive experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed at least FIVE of the above tasks, including (1) through (3). As a librarian has experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FOUR of the above tasks, including (1) through (3). Has experience providing reference and research services, and in doing so, executed (1) through (3) of the above tasks in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and manage library collections. &nbsp; Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collections. Monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness; and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collection materials, including English and/or Amhaic collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. In a professional or academic environment, reviewed a variety of sources for possible acquisition in order to develop collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials and used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Utilized integrated library systems and/or web scale discovery services and other technologies sufficient to carry out library or research functions; deliver customer services; and improve the efficiency of the work. This included: (1) searching, filtering, extracting, and merging information from library catalogs, databases, and data sources; (2) managing information using collaborative online tools; (3) disseminating and providing access to information; (4) designing, creating, populating, and maintaining tools for managing quantitative and qualitative information as well as digital scholarship tools; (5) creating subject guides; and (6) aggregating and presenting information to respond to user needs. Answer to this question is required Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including at least FIVE of the above to execute a broad range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including FOUR of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including THREE of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to provide consultation, public programs, and liaison duties. Planned and produced public programs, exhibits, seminars and colloquia on the regions to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals such as: 1) librarians, 2) authors, 3) editors, 4) publishers, and 5) scholars and teachers to share resources and information on the political, social, cultural, and scientific trends in the region.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with librarians, cooperative partners, and other specialists within and outside the organization. Exchanged information or knowledge related to reference and research services, collaborated on projects, and/or solved problems with individuals and/or groups with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject area. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and cooperative partners within and outside the organization to further the strategic objectives of the organization in a professional or academic setting. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals primarily within the organization to further the strategic objectives of the organization in a professional or academic setting. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).