Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [8912] Select the response that best describes your experience as a Marine Machinery Mechanic. Answer to this question is required I have journeymen level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with only limited supervisory overview. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I am considered an expert and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have journeyman level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with overview of my work performed by a supervisor or higher-level employee. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics without any supervisory assistance. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I have experience, and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess some independent experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform most tasks with little direction from a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance and guidance on advanced projects. I rarely need to have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess adequate experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform these tasks under the direction of a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance on any new projects, but I am alert and progressive and I usually have to be shown only once in order to acquire the knowledge and ability to perform the task. I have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. None of the above. 3 [53170] Do you have experience with a preventive maintenance program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [62567] Select the response that best describes your experience as a Marine Machinery Repairer. Answer to this question is required I have journeymen level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with only limited supervisory overview. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I am considered an expert and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have journeyman level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with overview of my work performed by a supervisor or higher-level employee. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics without any supervisory assistance. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I have experience, and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess some independent experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform most tasks with little direction from a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance and guidance on advanced projects. I rarely need to have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess adequate experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform these tasks under the direction of a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance on any new projects, but I am alert and progressive and I usually have to be shown only once in order to acquire the knowledge and ability to perform the task. I have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. None of the above. 5 [7818] Select the equipment which you have used while repairing, adjusting, and testing shipboard equipment. Answer to this question is required Levels Feeler gauges Calipers Electric Drills Pneumatic Drills Grinders Micrometers Depth Gauges Lathes Drill Presses Milling Machines Valve Grinders Welding burning equipment None of the above 6 [52069] Select the statement that supports your experience and/or training examining and troubleshooting tools to determine the extent of repairs required, materials or parts needed, and to estimate the time required to complete the repairs. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 7 [53172] Select the statement that supports your experience laying-out, planning and completing the installation, modification and repair of various systems, circuits, etc., to ship controls and equipment. This experience must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in this task, duty or function. I have experience or training in this task, duty or function. I have used my experience in this task, duty or function but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my experience in this task, duty or function, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 8 [1390] Select the mechanical engineering concept(s), principle(s), and practice(s) in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Mechanical engineering Structural of materials Strength of materials Dynamics Vibrations Mechanics Mathematical modeling Computer simulation Engineering Mechanics Aerospace Engineering None of the above 9 [2798] Select the statement below that best describes the level of knowledge, understanding and experience you have with the operation and maintenance of marine/mechanical equipment such as pumps, turbines, generators, and diesel engines, including equipment instrumentation. Answer to this question is required I have In-depth experience and comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the principles related to the operation and maintenance of marine/mechanical equipment such as pumps, turbines, generators, and diesel engines, including equipment instrumentation through actual field experience. I have working knowledge of the principles related to the operation and maintenance of marine/mechanical equipment such as pumps, turbines, generators, and diesel engines including equipment instrumentation through actual field experience. I have a basic understanding and knowledge of the principles related to the operation and maintenance of marine/mechanical equipment such as pumps, turbines, generators, and diesel engines including equipment instrumentation. None of the above. 10 [1010] Select the materials of which you have extensive and detailed knowledge AND you have used tools or instruments to manipulate. Answer to this question is required Carbon Steel Galvanized Steel Aluminum Ultra High Molecular Plastic Copper Domestic Woods Epoxy Materials (Belzona) Brass Other Plastics Stainless/Corrosion-resistant Steel Rubber Exotic Woods (hard) Nylon Cast Iron None of the above 11 [53174] Select the statement that supports your experience reading and working from blueprints, sketches, procedures, overhaul manuals and other technical work specification to accomplish assigned tasks. This experience must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in this task, duty or function. I have experience or training in this task, duty or function. I have used my experience in this task, duty or function but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my experience in this task, duty or function, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 12 [11004] Select the equipment which you have rotated or moved over by hand. Answer to this question is required Pumps Compressors Turvines Blowers Winches Steering engines Reduction gears Shafting Hydraulic cargo hatch systems Valves Piping Systems None of the above 13 [911] Select the equipment on which you have performed maintenance and repair work. Answer to this question is required Hatch Covers Malfunctioning Valves Diesel Engines Blowers Anchor Windlasses Boilers Boat Davits Condensers Steering Mac Evaporators Hydraulic Systems Centrifugal Pumps Reciprocating Pumps Turbines Compressors Steering Engines Piping Systems Tank Arrangements Cargo Handling Winches None of the above 14 [5085] Select the response that best describes your knowledge of engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders. Answer to this question is required I have little to no experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders. I have experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders with supervision. I have experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders and do not require supervision. I am very comfortable and experienced engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders and am often looked to for guidance on this task. 15 [55775] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill and experience with routine boat engine maintenance and/or repairs on small craft vessels. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through work activities associated with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through other work experience. I have no experience in this area, either hands-on or through observation. 16 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 17 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 18 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 19 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 22 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 23 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 24 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 [70525] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience preparing data presentations in written and graphical form, conducting quantitative and qualitative analysis for performance measures, implementing performance planning analysis and managing reporting activities? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 28 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 28.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 28.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 28.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).