Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Specialized experience includes participating in various phases of investigative work assignments; studying a broad variety of material pertinent to cases such as emails, financial records, and contract documents; interviewing employees, officials in and out of Government, and others for the purpose of verifying facts and obtaining specific pieces of information; obtaining signed statements, affidavits and documentary evidence to be included in reports or case records; and preparing written reports of investigative activities. 1 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I possess a master's or equivalent level degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or JD. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 11 Specialized experience includes working with higher level Criminal Investigators on completing various aspects of a criminal investigation involving criminal, civil, or administrative priorities; coordinating investigative activities with both internal and external factors; developing supportable data and materials; collecting and confirming information from a variety of sources; reviewing large amounts of data such as emails, financial records, and contract documents; and preparing investigative reports. 1 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: Complete all required sections and upload your documents, then navigate to the 'Review and Submit' page to select 'Submit Application'. Note that incomplete applications will not be considered. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the &lsquo;Confirmation Page&rsquo; where you can download a copy of your final application package. You may edit your submission anytime before the closing deadline. If you do, you must return to the 'Review and Submit' page and select 'Submit Application' again before the closing deadline. For any mandatory long-answer questions, ensure your responses are supported by your resume. If you do not have related experience, enter "N/A" in the space provided. The system will time out after one hour of inactivity on any web page, and unsaved entries will be lost. Note that typing in a text box does not register as system activity. To save your work and return later, enter placeholder text in any empty text spaces and navigate to the next page. 1 From the list below, choose the ONE answer that best meets the requirement to qualify for a Criminal Investigator position. Answer to this question is required I meet the specialized experience for this position and will NOT have reached my 37th birthday within 30 days of the closing date of this vacancy. I meet the specialized experience for this position and am NOT subject to the age restriction because I have current/prior compatible federal law enforcement retirement service and am able to reach the mandatory retirement age of 57 with at least 20 years of federal law enforcement service. I meet the specialized experience for this position and am a preference eligible with specialized experience. I do not meet any of the above definitions. 2 Do you possess a valid U.S. driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you possess, or are you willing to obtain and maintain throughout the length of the appointment, a Top Secret national security clearance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires you to submit to pre-appointment and random drug testing. Are you willing to undergo pre-appointment and random drug tests? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 This position is located in the city, state stated in announcement. Employees are required to commute to the physical duty location on a daily basis. Are you willing to accept a position in this city, state? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 This position authorizes the incumbent to carry a firearm. Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 922(g)(91)). Candidates under consideration will be required to certify whether they have ever been convicted of such an offense. False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 1001). Do you certify that you qualify under the Lautenberg Amendment because you have NOT been convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Medical Requirements: The duties of positions in this GS-1811 series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving running, bending, walking, searching crime scenes for evidence, recording crime scenes using photography or sketches, conducting covert and overt surveillance, interviewing suspects and providing written reports, administering oaths, carrying and potentially using firearms, serving search warrants and subpoenas, performing searches, apprehending suspects, driving, lifting, climbing, and using specialized equipment. Are you able to perform these functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you successfully completed the Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Glynco, Georgia, or another Federal equivalent criminal investigator training program, such as the FBI Special Agent training program or Military Criminal Investigative Organization equivalent? (Note: Tribal, State, and local law enforcement academy training does not meet this requirement). Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 In the question above you have selected yes, please state which training program(s) you have successfully completed.) Your response will be limited to 2,000 characters, which is approximately one-half of a typewritten page in length. Maximum length of 2000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 10 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 12 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 13 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 14 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).