Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 All librarians must meet the requirements for professional education in library science or possess equivalent experience and education. I have: A. Completion of 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree; or B.&nbsp; A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Ability to supervise, develop and lead a workforce.** Supervised and led a workforce that includes: 1) establishing realistic goals and standards; 2) supplying regular, constructive feedback and mentoring staff; 3) seeking participation of staff in planning, decision making and team building; 4) identifying skills and ability of staff and any skill gaps for current and future needs; 5) providing opportunities for career development/advancement; 6) hiring staff; 7) addressing performance and disciplinary matters; 8) communicating performance expectations; 9) conducting timely and periodic performance evaluations; 10) planning and assigning work; 11) ensuring tasks are appropriately delegated and satisfactorily completed; and 12) fostering an environment valuing integrity and honesty focused on ongoing improvement to self, others and customer service. Answer to this question is required In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 20 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised final authority for the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including ALL of the above. Established and implemented annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules for the work of an organization. This includes managing changes throughout the organization. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 10 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including NINE (9) of the above. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 5 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science.** Applied professional knowledge of collections in all formats to manage library functions and carry out library programs; using this knowledge to monitor and control the quality, development, condition and security of the collections. Experience with the following: 1) setting priorities and policies for collections use; 2) providing expertise and advice for developing collections; 3) working closely with special formats and subject specialists in setting materials selection and/or collection development priorities and targets; 4) managing a division or department&rsquo;s custodial collections; and 5) managing storage and exchange of materials. Answer to this question is required As a manager of library public services and/or reference services in a library, information center or research organization, initiated, planned and executed library programs and performed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager of library public services and/or reference services in a library, information center or research organization, worked in an existing library program and performed FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. As a manager of public services and/or reference services in a library, information center or research organization, applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to one or more specialized functions or programs within a library and information environment. Performed AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of the history, theory, and literature of music.** Applied knowledge of the history, theory, and literature of music and theater or dance. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an authority as evidenced by: 1) extensive experience in developing and evaluating music collections of national or international significance, 2) working with collections that require an in-depth knowledge of history, theory and performance, and 3) facilitating awareness of and access to the collection by scholars and other researchers through publications and public presentations. Have expert knowledge in the above as evidenced by: 1) extensive experience in developing and evaluating music collections, 2) working with collections that require an in-depth knowledge of musical notation, and 3) enhancing understanding of the collections through the creation of research guides. Have knowledge in the above as evidenced by: 1) extensive experience in developing and evaluating performing music collections, and 2) working with collections that require an in-depth knowledge of musical notation. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to lead, plan, coordinate, and manage programs and projects.** Led, planned, coordinated, and managed programs and projects for direct reference services to researchers and responded to inquiries through correspondence, electronic communication, and telephone inquiries. This included having performed the following tasks: 1) directing the preparation of highly specialized bibliographies and research guides; 2) directing and coordinating the acquisition of reference materials; 3) overseeing the preparation of general research guides; 4) establishing policies to make determinations on subject and depth of research guide based on surveys and review of researcher demands and needs; and 5) setting up policies to ensure accuracy, adequacy, and conformance to guidelines for research guides and bibliographic publications. Answer to this question is required Has overall responsibility for executing ALL of the above tasks in support of reference services for a large cultural institution. Has overall responsibility for executing FOUR (4) of the above tasks in support of reference services for a large cultural institution. Has overall responsibility for executing THREE (3) of the above tasks in support of reference services for a large cultural institution. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to plan and carry out library and archival programs in an automated environment. Planned, developed, implemented, maintained, and evaluated a variety of new, enhanced or established automated tools, technologies, and metadata standards to carry out library and archival functions in support of strategic objectives.&nbsp; This includes integrated library systems, circulation and collection management systems, digital curation applications, Encoded Archival Description (EAD) software and applications, general office software, and enterprise solutions for developing and sharing online subject guides and other digital web presentations and reference aids. Answer to this question is required Applied in depth knowledge of automated tools, technologies, and metadata standards to plan, develop, implement, and evaluate overall automated library and archival information programs to support strategic objectives. Applied knowledge of automated tools, technologies, and metadata standards to implement automated library information programs to support an organization's mission and business objectives. Applied knowledge of automated tools, technologies, and metadata standards to evaluate specialized library information programs and services to support the organization's operations. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products related to library services. Examples include: 1) policies and procedures, 2) strategic planning documents, 3) annual reports, 4) memoranda and external correspondence, 5) analyses, 6) technical proposals, 7) statistical reports, 8) budget documentation, 9) historical analyses and collection-based research reports, and 10) performance appraisals. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents. As a principal author, independently wrote at least EIGHT (8) of the above documents. As principal author, independently wrote at SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents. None of the above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Ability to build and maintain relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds in order to provide consultation or liaison services. Provided consultation or liaison services to exchange information and maintain relationships with persons and/or organizations inside and outside the organization, including professional colleagues and contractors, archivists, librarians, scholars, donors and other specialists. Answer to this question is required Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization, to develop and implement programs. Coalitions involved high-ranking government officials, senior management officials in partner organizations; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues in academia, associations, government, and industry. Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization, to develop and implement programs. Coalitions involved management officials; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues in government, and industry. Built and maintained coalitions with stakeholders representing multiple units within an agency or organization to develop programs. Coalitions involved management officials; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues within the agency or organization. None of the above. 18 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 20 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).