Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate all that you have experience with related to the information technology life cycle: Answer to this question is required Systems development life cycle Federal government information technology acquisition process Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Information technology system/project portfolio management Information technology project management Section 508 Accessibility requirements Information Assurance management Enterprise Architecture Configuration Management Usability Testing Quality Assurance Testing None of the above 2 Select the program management work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Formulates requirements for an organization. Reviews technology to identify potential applications for future communications systems. Develops detailed lists of equipment and capabilities to satisfy current requirements. Reviews, refines, and translates requirements into language that can be used in contracting processes. Plans and implements the installation and acceptance phases of approved projects and contracts. Develop personnel staffing levels for current and long-term requirements, or for emergency networks. Reviews and recommends specific kinds of communications security systems according to operating requirements, classification or sensitivity of planned traffic, and locations of stations. Ensures that equipment required to process and ensure the smooth flow of electronic message traffic is operational. Ensure that necessary cryptographic and other program changes are made as scheduled. Ensures that technical issues / changes to the information technology configuration are addressed and implemented. None of the above. 3 Which of the following Information Architecture functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have developed the vision or strategy for an Information Architecture program. I have established the Information Architecture through full life cycle for an Information Architecture program. I have developed the Enterprise Data Model for an Information Architecture program. I have developed Enterprise Data Use policies for an Information Architecture program. I have devised Enterprise Information Analysis maps for an Information Architecture program. None of the above. 4 From the choices below, please indicate the information technology specialty areas for which you have experience providing direction: Answer to this question is required National Intelligence Systems (NIS) Information systems Local Area Networks (LAN) Wide Area Networks (WAN) Cryptographic systems Client-based operating systems and/or applications Server-based operating systems and/or applications Network security requirements IT architecture policies None of the above 5 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. 6 From the following list of information security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed. Answer to this question is required Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Technical Surveillance Countermeasures None of the above 7 Please select the description that BEST describes your experience conducting research and formulating recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have significant experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on organizational issues that are broad in scope. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations limited to a specific project area or program. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on focused activities and bounded problem statements. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on a set of activities that I am solely responsible for producing. I have no experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.