Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience includes: (1) Applying a wide range of security and resilience policies, procedures, concepts, principles and practices to review,&nbsp; analyze and resolve difficult and complex security problems;&nbsp;(2) Conducting classes and briefings for individuals and groups on operational security topics; (3) Contributing to an organization's security education or training program; and (4)&nbsp;Performing inspections, developing inspection reports and following-up on status of corrective actions. 2 Select the response that best describes your experience applying knowledge of a wide range of security and resilience policies, procedures, concepts, principles and practices to review, analyze and resolve difficult and complex security problems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. 2.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. 2.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 2.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. 3 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or training checking alarms and electronic access systems to assure conformance with requirements and standards. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience includes: (1) Mastery of a wide range of security and resilience policies, procedures, concepts, principles and practices to review,&nbsp; analyze and resolve difficult and complex security problems;&nbsp;(2) Conducting classes and briefings for individuals and groups on operational security topics; (3)&nbsp;Serving as lead for an organization's security education or training program; and (4)&nbsp;Performing inspections, developing inspection reports and following-up on status of corrective actions. 2 Do you have experience maintaining inspection standards by making recommendations on evaluation findings and ensuring verification and proper implementation of a Security Program. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your experience applying knowledge of a wide range of security and resilience policies, procedures, concepts, principles and practices to review, analyze and resolve difficult and complex security problems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. 3.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. 3.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or training in managing a Controlled Unclassified Information program. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 2 Do you have experience working in a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility?&nbsp; A SCIF is an enclosed area within a building that is used to process sensitive types of classified (ex. personal) information. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked Offered coverage to ensure others received a break Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets) None of the above 4 Select the statements that describe your presentation/communication skills. Answer to this question is required Effectively communicate technical information to internal and external audiences. Persuade others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, and agree to take a suggested course of action. Interview employees and/or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information/data. Conduct training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. Effectively communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular and recurring basis. None of the above. 5 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required History based information from research, web-based materials, and lessons to be given in a museum or heritage site with the public. Updating existing programs and/or initiatives created by colleagues or former employees. Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Composing daily activity reports regarding complex issues, such as reports or progress of initiatives, evaluation, programs, briefs for staff, and proposals for management. None of the above 6 Which response best reflects your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have worked on a team where each member had been designated a distinctly separate role and required minimal collaboration. I have encouraged individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with others to achieve a goal by sharing and integrating ideas, knowledge, information, and support resources. In a leadership capacity, I improved teamwork, cooperation, and productivity among various offices and teams. None of the above. 7 Please describe your experience or education in drafting or editing&nbsp; security policies, SOPs, briefings, white papers, or other related documents.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 8.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.