Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the ONE answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education with a major study in finance, business administration , economics, accounting, insurance, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, statistics, or other fields related to the position. I possess a COMBINATION of graduate level education as described above beyond the 2nd full year of graduate education, and specialized experience as described above, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. EXPERIENCE: I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 9 level as described below: I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Experience working with bank reporting requirements, the bank examination process, capital and money markets, and economic conditions impacting financial institutions; and analyzing the banking industry to identify economic developments that could affect insured institutions. Grade: 12 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 11 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Experience resolving accounting, capital markets, and trust company issues to answer questions from internal and external sources; identifying economic developments affecting insured institutions; and compiling and supplying information for studies and policy decisions related to financial institutions.&nbsp; Grade: 13 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 12 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Experience performing mathematical and statistical calculations, resolving accounting, capital markets, and trust company issues, determining the nature of those issues, considering alternatives, and making recommendations for corrective action; and compiling and supplying information for studies and policy decisions related to financial institutions. Grade: All Grades 1 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 8 I understand that in order to be considered non-competitively I must include a copy of my SF-50.&nbsp;The SF-50 must show the highest grade level or full performance level I have attained competitively on a permanent basis, and the grade must be equivalent to or higher than the grade for which I am applying.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I acknowledge that in order to be considered for this position, I must submit a copy of ALL transcripts as outlined in the Qualification section of this announcement. U nofficial copies are sufficient, but, if selected, official copy(ies) will be required prior to appointment . Failure to submit transcripts will be considered an incomplete application and I will not be referred for consideration.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).