Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Do you have experience assisting with budget development and execution, purchasing, drafting reports and other written materials for budget justifications, and serving as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in using financial systems &nbsp; such as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Do you have experience functioning as a Procurement Official approving purchase card and purchase order transactions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Identify the property management tasks with which you have had experience. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have maintained property records I have maintained an automated property tracking system I have conducted property inventories I have coordinated the disposal of excess Federal property I have identified, located, and arranged for the transfer of Federal property to my agency. All of the above None of the above 7 Which of the following describes your experience performing or overseeing the processing of personnel actions, maintenance of records, and related functions including advising departmental management on all aspects of personnel? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience making recommendations relating to various personnel actions I have experience advising supervisors and managers on personnel management issues and problems. I have experience maintaining continuous communications with HR representatives in the areas of recruitment, promotion, training, disciplinary actions and performance plans and evaluations. I have experience providing position management advice and recommendations to managers. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience demonstrating your potential to supervise a group of employees? Answer to this question is required I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instruction on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization; assigning tasks among team members; monitoring the status and progress of work in accordance with established priorities, and providing reports on individual performance, progress, and training needs of team members and on any performance problems. I have served as a project leader, established and communicated the project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities which included developing goals, milestones, and work plans; balancing and distributing employees' workload, evaluating job performance, mediating/or negotiating resolutions to employee problems and conflicts, recommending employees for recognition, promotion, developmental training; and recommending or hiring new employees. 9 Which of the following best describes your administrative experience as a Team Leader? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues. I have no experience with leading staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues. I have experience in serving as a Team Leader, assisting in daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. I have experience as a Team Leader and Supervisor. This includes managing and coordinating schedules, daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to prioritize and develop work assignments while effectively responding to day-to-day administrative changes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of these tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained others in performance of these skills and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best reflects your experience in analyzing data to evaluate risk, independently solve problems, and assist in the decision making process? Answer to this question is required I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my duties and responsibilities. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 12 Have you successfully completed a research project that included collecting and analyzing information and reporting conclusions or recommendations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following responses best describes your experience studying the effectiveness of Administrative Support Program to determine methods to more effectively serve customers. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have assisted a senior level staff member with studying the effectiveness of existing Administrative Support Program to determine methods to more effectively serve customers. I have independently studied the effectiveness of existing Administrative Support Program to determine methods to more effectively serve customers, only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training on conducting program studies to determine methods to more effectively serve customers, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I am highly skilled at studying the effectiveness of existing Administrative Support Programs to determine methods to more effectively serve customers and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best represents your highest level of experience in regards to your ability to communicate in both formal and informal settings? (i.e., communicating effectively with agency executives, senior level management, employee organizations, government officials, private industry representatives, and vendors.) Answer to this question is required I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have demonstrated skill in persuading and negotiating with others to obtain a desired result. This includes experience in presenting research findings, etc. at large conferences and symposium as a presenter with respected credentials. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (i.e., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussion in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work effort or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 15 Which of following statement(s) describes your communication proficiency with conducting presentations, briefing, and meetings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have presented information to management officials and other staff within organization. I have conducted staff meetings or meetings on program areas or served as a spokesperson for program areas. I have reported information at group meetings explaining program procedures and practices to others in the organization. I have briefed top management within the agency on a proposal, a program, or in defending a position. I have addressed internal groups or local customers on key functions and policies I have presented information in which the point of view expressed is sensitive or controversial or likely to be met with opposition. I have conducted presentations to external groups on sensitive or controversial topics, and I have defended organizational policies and practices to external audiences. I have held and conducted employee forums or program conferences and served as the key speaker. I have chaired an interagency task force or committee. I have served on a formal panel or at a hearing to provide expert advice on technical or policy matters. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your proficiency level of experience with written communication? Answer to this question is required I have produced written correspondence to inform management officials and other staff within organization. I have produced written correspondence to inform and/or persuade top management officials within the agency. I have produced written correspondence for the purpose of reporting findings or defending a position. I have had education or training in written communication, but have not yet to author formal correspondence on the job. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements describes your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.