Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Which statement best describes your background related to this position? Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience (federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal government. 2 Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of the position? For this position specialized experience is defined as directing and planning established guidelines and objectives for a fleet management program and vehicle repair shop or small boat program or passenger/cargo transport operations. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following fleet management activities do you have experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Fleet Maintenance Training Mobile Asset re-utilization or disposal Fleet Electrification Managing in-house fuel site Performing inventories Vehicle maintenance management Fleet Safety Shop Productivity Use of a Fleet Management Information System (FMIS) Small Boat Program (Vessels under 65 Ft) Vehicle accident management None of the above 4 Do you have experience managing a fleet of small boats (each 14ft - 65ft long)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience developing and implementing maritime controls to remain compliant with USCG, ABYC, ABS and 33/46 CFR requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following Small Boat Program activities do you have experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required None listed Serving as expert technical advisor Independently, conducting technical reviews of vessel systems, engineering studies, and contractor reports. Overseeing maintenance contracts with certified maritime vendors. Performing long range planning for replacement or modernization of vessels. 7 Do you have experience managing a mobile asset maintenance budget for a large fleet management program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following task(s) have you performed as a regular part of your job? &nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed strategic fleet sustainability plans. I have led and/or participated in initiatives to implement organizational electric vehicle program. I have independently conducted assessments and prepared written reports. I have developed maintenance interval standards that enables intended life cycle of mobile assets. I have managed fueling site and under/above ground storage tanks. I have utilized automated fuel systems to track fuel usage and analyze data. I have developed mobile asset replacement plans. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience demonstrating your potential to supervise a group of employees? Answer to this question is required I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instruction on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization; assigning tasks among team members; monitoring the status and progress of work in accordance with established priorities, and providing reports on individual performance, progress, and training needs of team members and on any performance problems. I have served as a project leader, established and communicated the project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities which included developing goals, milestones, and work plans; balancing and distributing employees' workload, evaluating job performance, mediating/or negotiating resolutions to employee problems and conflicts, recommending employees for recognition, promotion, developmental training; and recommending or hiring new employees. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience promoting teamwork, acceptance, and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in promoting teamwork, acceptance, and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in promoting teamwork, acceptance, and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance, and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance, and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following describes resources you have utilized as a tool to manage a Fleet Management Program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). GSA Acquisition Manual (GSAM). Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Federal Property Management Regulation (FPMR). Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars and Bulletins. Executive Order 13514. USDOT Federal Code Regulation. GSA Fleet Management Operations Handbook (FMOH). Domestic and International maritime laws, regulations, and requirements outlined by the United States Coast Guard, American Boat and Yacht Council (ABYC), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), 33 CFR, and 46 CFR. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMSCA) Regulations. Federal Size Regulations for Commercial Motor Vehicles. None of the above. 12 Have you successfully completed a research project that included collecting and analyzing information and reporting conclusions or recommendations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your experience studying the effectiveness of existing Fleet Management Programs to determine methods to more effectively serve customers and control costs? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have assisted a senior level staff member with studying the effectiveness of existing Fleet Management Centers to determine methods to more effectively serve customer agencies and control costs. I have independently studied the effectiveness of existing Fleet Management Centers to determine methods to more effectively serve customer agencies and control costs. Only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training with Fleet Management Centers to determine methods to more effectively serve customer agencies and control costs, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I am highly skilled at studying the effectiveness of existing Fleet Management Centers to determine methods to more effectively serve customer agencies and control costs. I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best represents your highest level of experience in regards to your ability to communicate in both formal and informal settings? (i.e., communicating effectively with agency executives, senior level management, employee organizations, government officials, private industry representatives, and vendors.) Answer to this question is required I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have demonstrated skill in persuading and negotiating with others to obtain a desired result. This includes experience in presenting research findings, etc. at large conferences and symposium as a presenter with respected credentials. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (i.e., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussion in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work effort or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 15 Which of following statement(s) describes your communication proficiency with conducting presentations, briefing, and meetings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have presented information to management officials and other staff within organization. I have conducted staff meetings or meetings on program areas or served as a spokesperson for program areas. I have reported information at group meetings explaining program procedures and practices to others in the organization. I have briefed top management within the agency on a proposal, a program, or in defending a position. I have addressed internal groups or local customers on key functions and policies I have presented information in which the point of view expressed is sensitive or controversial or likely to be met with opposition. I have conducted presentations to external groups on sensitive or controversial topics, and I have defended organizational policies and practices to external audiences. I have held and conducted employee forums or program conferences and served as the key speaker. I have chaired an interagency task force or committee. I have served on a formal panel or at a hearing to provide expert advice on technical or policy matters. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your proficiency level of experience with written communication? Answer to this question is required I have produced written correspondence to inform management officials and other staff within organization. I have produced written correspondence to inform and/or persuade top management officials within the agency. I have produced written correspondence for the purpose of reporting findings or defending a position. I have had education or training in written communication, but have not yet to author formal correspondence on the job. None of the above. 17 Which of the following describes written product(s) you have produced as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written issue papers or summary reports on organizational data which includes analysis and recommendations. I have written position papers on controversial issues. I have written policy statements and guidance. I have written procedural guidance. I have written report findings on studies. I have written recommendations for solutions to policy problems. I have written organizational assessments. I have written product/process evaluation assessments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.