Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have had training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have not had experience in performing these tasks. 5 Please indicate the following types of situations where you have interviewed someone: Answer to this question is required To determine eligibility. Where they were reluctant to provide information. Where there was a potential for fraud. Where relevant facts must be discerned from non-relevant facts. Where the information is provided through an intermediary. Where the other party doesn't understand the need for the required information. Where the other party provides information that requires follow-up information from other sources. None of the above. 6 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 7 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 8 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in conducting research and performing analytical tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Analyzed, and recommended alternative approaches to existing practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedural reports, policies and/or programs. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted post-implementation reviews of program initiatives for efficient and economical operations and overall quality. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 9 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with independently applying rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have independently applied rules and regulations on a daily basis. I have applied rules and regulations with limited supervision. I have applied rules and regulations with considerable supervision. I have education or training related to this area, but I have no experience in performing this task in the workplace. I have no education or experience related to applying rules and regulations. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 12 From the following list of oral communication situations, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Conducted interviews (including subject interviews). Testified in judicial and/or administrative proceedings. Provided oral case briefings to senior management. Conducted fraud awareness or other outreach briefings to agency employees or the general public. Presented cases to prosecutive entities. None of the above. 13 I have experience in writing the following types of technical and non-technical information: Answer to this question is required Policy analysis Program evaluation Analysis of alternatives Correspondence Statistical Analysis Packaging specifications Packing reports Inspection reports Speeches Investigative reports Thesis Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Mission statement Any work published in academic journal Congressional correspondence None of the above 14 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 15 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have had training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have not had experience in performing these tasks. 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 5 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 6 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 7 I have experience in writing the following types of technical and non-technical information: Answer to this question is required Policy analysis Program evaluation Analysis of alternatives Correspondence Statistical Analysis Packaging specifications Packing reports Inspection reports Speeches Investigative reports Thesis Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Mission statement Any work published in academic journal Congressional correspondence None of the above 8 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in conducting research and performing analytical tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Analyzed, and recommended alternative approaches to existing practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedural reports, policies and/or programs. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted post-implementation reviews of program initiatives for efficient and economical operations and overall quality. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 9 Please select from the list below situations in which you have developed and recommended policy: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 11 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 12 From the following list of oral communication situations, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Conducted interviews (including subject interviews). Testified in judicial and/or administrative proceedings. Provided oral case briefings to senior management. Conducted fraud awareness or other outreach briefings to agency employees or the general public. Presented cases to prosecutive entities. None of the above. 13 Please indicate the following types of situations where you have interviewed someone: Answer to this question is required To determine eligibility. Where they were reluctant to provide information. Where there was a potential for fraud. Where relevant facts must be discerned from non-relevant facts. Where the information is provided through an intermediary. Where the other party doesn't understand the need for the required information. Where the other party provides information that requires follow-up information from other sources. None of the above. 14 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you fluent in speaking and reading Spanish? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.