Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience include the following: 1. Drafting, developing and maintaining policy governing a broad range of HR programs and services addressing the needs and challenges of an organization. 2. Providing advisory services on issues requiring substantial human resources policy interpretation by evaluating policy and legislation and monitoring the effect that these policies have on the mission of an organization. 3. Conducting research and fact finding to develop position and issue papers on HR matters &nbsp; of critical importance to an organization. 4. Maintaining relationships with leaders, managers, employees and officials on matters related to the organization&rsquo;s role in implementing human resources policies in support of the mission. 5. Application of written and oral communication techniques sufficient to develop and deliver presentations briefings, training, reports, and correspondence to senior leadership, management, &nbsp; peers and employees to foster understanding and acceptance of policy recommendations. 6. Facilitation of ongoing training and formalized instruction to ensure policies are communicated, monitored and enforced. &nbsp; No 2 I have interpreted, developed and assisted with implementation of new and existing policies related to a broad range of core HR issues.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience persuading others to adopt a policy or course of action? Answer to this question is required I have participated in discussions to persuade others to adopt a controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. I have completed education or training related to persuasive communication techniques, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have led discussions and successfully persuaded others to adopt a non-controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. None of the above. 4 Select all responses that describe your experience representing the interests of an organization&nbsp;in meetings with other organizations to obtain all viewpoints regarding proposed policies and policy updates. Answer to this question is required Maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies. Led meetings that crossed organizational or agency boundaries. Served as a team member in meetings that cross organizational or agency boundaries. Represented the organization at inter-agency meetings. Maintained relationships with various federal, state, and/or local stakeholders. None of the above. 5 Select the responses that describe your experience leading and/or using strategic and consistent communication practices to inform and engage internal and external stakeholders, such as Members of Congress and their staff, on a range of public policy issues. Answer to this question is required Facilitated communication between congressional offices. Briefed senior management. Personally presented and defended policies or controversial issues to members of Congress and congressional staff. Provided guidance to others on congressional matters. None of the above. 6 Do you have experience writing policies and standard operating procedures (SOPs)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Choose the statements that demonstrate your oral communication skills. Answer to this question is required Empowered, motivated, and guided others. Led or introduced change initiatives. Consulted with internal and external partners to meet requirements and achieve organizational goals. Clearly articulated, presented, and promoted ideas and issues before a diversity of audiences. Assisted management in determining appropriate steps, options, and penalties in disciplinary cases. Conducted interviews to elicit information. None of the Above 8 Select the written communication activities you have performed: Answer to this question is required Drafted written products for a supervisor. Wrote and presented technical information to a group of technical and non-technical participants. Wrote and presented information as a subject matter expert to a group of peers. None of the above. 9 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 10 Which of the following management activities have you independently performed? Answer to this question is required Created project scope management plans. Developed planned activities. Implemented plans. Evaluated plan effectiveness. Recommended and implemented revisions based on evaluation results. Monitored and maintained plans. None of the above. 11 Do you have experience developing and/or assisting in the development and implementation of strategic plans, programs and policies to meet the operational objectives of a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select all&nbsp;responses that describe your experience representing the interests of a project/program or function under your direct responsibility. Answer to this question is required Maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies. Led projects that crossed organizational or agency boundaries. Served as a team member on projects that cross organizational or agency boundaries. Represented the organization at inter-agency meetings. Maintained relationships with various federal, state, and/or local stakeholders. None of the above 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with organizational problem identification and resolution? Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience identifying or solving organizational problems. I completed training or education related to organizational problem identification or resolution, but have not applied these concepts in my work. I have identified organizational problems and notified management of the issues. I have identified organizational problems and developed solutions as part of a team. I have independently identified organizational problems and developed solutions. I have identified organizational problems and led a team to develop and implement solutions. 14 I have made recommendations or decisions on the best way to resolve problems based on data analysis and interpretation. Answer to this question is required True False 15 Select the responses that describe your experience leading and/or using strategic and consistent communication practices to inform and engage internal and external stakeholders, on a range of HR policy issues. Answer to this question is required Briefed senior management and leadership on complex issues concerning HR policies. Personally presented and defended policies on controversial HR issues to senior leaders, customers and staff. Facilitated communication between internal offices. Provided guidance to peers on HR policy matters. None of the above. 16 Do you have experience consulting with representatives from various departments or branches to resolve Human Capital issues that arise in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.