Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 With which of the following IT topics do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Cloud implementations and development Business Process Automation (BPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Advanced simulations Software architecture Enterprise architecture SecDevOps Agile software development Secure Software Development Life Cycle (SSDLC) Application security Static code analysis Dynamic application security testing UX / UI Open source Source control Large-scale application and/or data migrations Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) integration Mobile application development Data analysis SQL queries Technical documentation None of the above 4 Which of the following Information Architecture functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have developed the vision or strategy for an Information Architecture program. I have established the Information Architecture through full life cycle for an Information Architecture program. I have developed the Enterprise Data Model for an Information Architecture program. I have developed Enterprise Data Use policies for an Information Architecture program. I have devised Enterprise Information Analysis maps for an Information Architecture program. None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your level of experience planning organizational activities for architecture projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning organizational activities for an architecture project. I have assisted with the development of plans for architecture projects ranging from 1 - 3 months duration for an office or bureau. I have independently developed plans for architecture projects ranging from 1 - 3 months in duration, and/or have assisted with the development of plans ranging from 3 months to 1 year for an office or bureau. I have independently developed plans for architecture projects of a year or more in duration, and developed objectives and priorities to be met for an office or bureau. I have independently developed objectives and priorities, developed long and short range plans for architecture projects, and coordinated activities and resolved problems encountered while carrying out the plans. 6 Which of the following responses best reflects your level of experience in business process analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in business process analyses. I have assisted in describing and analyzing existing business processes. I have done business process analysis, describing existing processes and proposing new and better process and replacements. I have done business process analyses, describing both existing new processes and developed migration plans for shifting to the new one. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for an office or bureau. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for the Department. 7 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your experience integrating disparate approaches to Information Architecture across an organization? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in an Information Architecture integration project. I have training or education in applying Information Architecture, but have no work experience in this area. I have functioned as a team member on an Information Architecture integration project. I have led a phase of an Information Architecture integration project. I have performed as the overall Information Architect for an Information Architecture integration project. 8 From the list below, identify all of the type(s) of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas 10 What is your level of experience with project management? Answer to this question is required I have either coursework or practical experience in project management. I have coursework in project management, but not practical experience. I have been a member of a long-term project team. I have had responsibility for managing one project of moderate length (i.e., 6 months or less). I have had responsibility for managing one long-term project (i.e., greater than one year). I have had responsibility for managing several multiple and long-term projects (i.e., greater than one year) concurrently. I have no education, training or experience in project management. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.