Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to direct and manage a supply management program, including logistics warehousing and receiving operations.** Directs and manages the supply management program, including logistics warehousing and receiving operations for multiple facilities.&nbsp; In doing so performs the following tasks:&nbsp; 1) develops inventory controls, procedures, and policies to ensure property/equipment protection and maintenance, 2) ensures accurate tracking of material received and stored and reports receipts to the main ordering and tracking systems, 3) recommends functional realignment and equipment acquisitions, 4) evaluates long and short term storage requirements and develops storage layout, 5) prepares technical and administrative reports on aspects of the program, and 6) meets with stakeholders to resolve issues, problems, and complexities of the receiving and warehousing operations. Answer to this question is required As a Supply or Logistics Manager or equivalent, oversaw ALL of the above aspects of a receiving and warehousing operation for a large agency or organization. As a Supply or Logistics Manager or equivalent, oversaw FIVE of the above aspects of a receiving and warehousing operation for a large agency or organization. As a Supply or Logistics Manager or equivalent, oversaw FOUR of the above aspects of a receiving and warehousing operation for a large agency or organization. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of contract preparation and contractor monitoring policies and procedures.** Worked as a contract officer representative (COR), monitoring, evaluating, and overseeing contract activities related to procurement, repair and maintenance of materials handling equipment, performing the following activities: 1) coordinating contract administration activities for technical service contracts; 2) overseeing technical evaluations of work performed by contractors in the installation and/or maintenance of hardware and software products; 3) initiating revisions to meet changing program requirements; 4) drafting statements of work; 5) collaborating with vendors and end users to ensure contract requirements are met and activities are performed in compliance with the terms of the contract; and 6) reviewing the work product of contract personnel, including accepting, amending or rejecting their work. Answer to this question is required Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing ALL of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing FOUR or FIVE of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing THREE of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of automated supply, administrative tools and asset management systems.** Used administrative tools and automated systems to manage materials/product, asset control and logistics&rsquo; management programs. This includes initial planning through acquisition, storage, issue, forecasting, utilization and disposal. Administrative tools and systems utilized include: 1) inventory management system, 2) word-processing (e.g., Word), 3) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 4)&nbsp;presentations (e.g., PowerPoint),&nbsp;5) internet,&nbsp;6) electronic calendar, 7 ) electronic time and attendance, and 8) email (e.g., Outlook) . Answer to this question is required Used automated logistics’ management systems to manage product/materials, asset control and logistics’ management programs. The automated system must have been integrated with the various logistics’ data elements. Used AT LEAST SEVEN of the administrative tools and systems listed above. Used automated logistics’ management systems to carry out functions related to inventory management and FIVE or SIX of the administrative tools above. Used automated logistics’ management systems and familiar with FOUR of the administrative tools above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote a variety of documents, including: 1) reports (e.g., project reports, monthly reports), 2) policies and procedures relating to inventory/supplies, 3) guidelines and regulations, 4) professional email correspondence, 5) technical requirements, 6) statements of work, 7) operating instructions, 8) evaluation criteria, and 9) other contract related documents. Answer to this question is required As the primary author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents. As the primary author with minimal guidance, wrote EIGHT of the above documents. As the primary author with minimal guidance, wrote SEVEN of the above documents. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation or liaison services. Worked collaboratively with others to plan and manage programs. Developed and implemented strategies designed to reach and engage stakeholders in collaborative efforts. Advised and recommended innovative approaches for avoiding and/or resolving problems and reducing conflicts. Answer to this question is required Routinely collaborated with internal managers, staff and others to develop strategies and solutions for agency wide issues and problems and to accomplish work related to programs and projects. Resolved disputes and worked with stakeholders, contractors and partners to meet deliverables. Routinely collaborated with internal managers, staff, and others to accomplish programs or projects. Resolved disputes and collaborated with stakeholders and partners to meet deliverables. Collaborated with internal managers, staff, and others to accomplish programs or projects. Resolved disputes among the team. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to use innovative thinking and analytical methods to evaluate supply and facilities management. Conducted studies and used analytical methods to evaluate programs.&nbsp; Analytical work included studies of operational storage and distribution activities to accomplish the assigned warehousing mission of allocating and using storage space, protecting material handling equipment and items stored, and economical ways to receive, store, care for, and distribute material s . Identified and recommended solutions to critical problems affecting the administration&nbsp;and performance of logistics. Delivered industry standard best practices and solutions . Answer to this question is required Independently conducted complex studies, gathered information, presented facts, drew conclusions and made recommendations on a supply and facilities management program for an organization or agency with a large multi-building complex. Identified and addressed short- and long-range needs, issues, concerns, and questions affecting overall program goals and objectives. Independently conducted complex studies, gathered information, presented facts, drew conclusions and made recommendations on a supply and facilities management program for an organization or agency. Identified and addressed short- and long-range needs, issues, concerns, and questions affecting overall program goals and objectives. Conducted or assisted in conducting complex studies, gathering information, presenting facts, drawing conclusions and making recommendations on a building supply and facilities management program. Identified and addressed short- and long-range needs, issues, concerns, and questions affecting overall program goals and objectives. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Knowledge of policies, processes, and regulations related to inventory, property, equipment and supply management. Managed, coordinated, and controlled property, supplies, and/or equipment as part of a logistics management program in accordance with all applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Applied in-depth knowledge in the administration of an organization-wide logistics management program including the application of all applicable regulations, policies and procedures resulting in the effective execution of the program. Applied knowledge in the administration of a major segment of an organization-wide logistics management program including the application of all applicable regulations, policies and procedures resulting in the effective execution of that segment of the program. Applied basic logistics management techniques in an organization or academic setting. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).