Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Applicants&nbsp;must have specialized experience, directly related graduate education OR a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described below. Please select the response that best demonstrates how you meet the qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: (1) Assisting in the development of cost estimates for construction projects; (2) Reviewing cost estimates for accuracy and compliance with applicable standards; (3) Working with engineers, architects, and contractors to ensure cost estimates are in compliance with budget and cost projections. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have a combination of the above specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must have specialized experience, college-level education OR a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described below. Please select the response that best demonstrates how you meet the qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: (1) Developing cost estimates for new construction and/or interior and exterior alterations, restorations, historic preservation, additions and repairs to existing structures; (2)Reviewing and revising cost estimates for accuracy and compliance with applicable standards; (3)Performing cost estimates using SUCCESS Estimator, Cost-OS or equivalent cost estimating software; (4)Working with engineers, architects, and contractors to ensure cost estimates are in compliance with project budget and cost projections. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have a combination of the above specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must have specialized experience, college-level education OR a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described below. Please select the response that best demonstrates how you meet the qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: (1) Comprehensive knowledge of and experience with estimate development, through design stages from schematics through working drawings, for proposed new construction, restorations, repairs and alteration projects. (2) Providing oversight and leading in the development of cost estimates for construction projects and ensuring accuracy and compliance with applicable standards. (3) Developing cost estimates using SUCCESS Estimator/RIB, Cost-OS, or equivalent cost estimating software. (4) Providing advisory services and working with engineers, architects, and contractors to ensure cost estimates are in compliance with project budget and cost projections. (5) Serving as Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or equivalent for support contracts. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have a combination of the above specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Grade: All Grades 1 From the list below,&nbsp;select the activities that you have performed in support of construction projects. Answer to this question is required Developed cost plans for a variety of construction projects (i.e. interior and exterior, alterations, historic preservation, additions and repairs, restorations). Prepared detailed budget estimates using various sources (statements of work, space programs, detailed drawings, existing conditions assessments, surveys etc.). Worked with various disciplines to prepare detailed cost estimates from construction through planning and execution phases of project. Worked with various disciplines to prepare detailed cost estimates from construction through planning and execution phases of project. Calculated estimates for professional fees, i.e.: studies, designs, construction documents. Developed Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs) or budgeting estimate in support of contract actions and acquisition planning or prepared detailed proposals for construction projects. Coordinated with a scheduler to develop resource-loaded schedules and critical path schedules. Developed costs and methods reports for feasibility studies. None of the above. 2 Which tasks have you performed to determine the necessity, fairness, and reasonableness of proposed contract costs? Answer to this question is required Participated in risk analysis and associated cost impacts for construction projects. Participated in economic price adjustment and analysis as it relates to escalation and price increases for active and future construction projects. Gathered and evaluated price and/or cost data for pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Performed basic analyses for firm fixed-price contracts. None of the above. 3 Have you developed cost estimates utilizing a cost estimation software system? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked, the software used and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp;Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 4 Select&nbsp;the statement that best describes your ability to develop cost estimates for construction, repair and alteration projects. Answer to this question is required I am able to independently plan and estimate the simplest projects. I would need assistance with more complex projects. I am able to independently plan and estimate moderate complexity construction projects and all repair and improvement projects. I am able to independently plan and estimate high complexity construction and repair and alteration projects. I have little or no experience in planning and estimating construction or repair and alteration work, however, I am willing to be trained. 5 For what types of activities have you prepared cost estimates? Answer to this question is required New construction, alterations, historic preservation and/or renovations projects Multi-discipline infrastructure projects Repair/replacement of equipment (boilers, generators, AHU’s, etc.) Contracting for third party services (i.e. equipment, commissioning, risk assessment, construction administration) Proposals for professional fees None of the above 6 Which&nbsp;activities have you used to prepare estimates? Answer to this question is required Labor conditions Wages Market fluctuations Cost escalations indices Materials availability and costs Job order contracts Site visits only Technological changes Construction industry trends None of the above 7 Have you developed an estimate utilizing RS Means data (digital or hardcover)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience analyzing financial trends and future project/program requirements to develop budget estimates? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and a brief description of your experience. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 9 Select the response that most closely reflects your experience with change orders on commercial construction projects. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with construction change orders. I have completed coursework related to construction change orders, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have identified when construction change orders will be needed to complete a project. I have reviewed change orders to determine impact on project schedule and cost. I have recommended the acceptance or rejection of change orders based on an analysis of project scope, schedule, and cost. 10 For what&nbsp;purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To coordinate and/or develop program recommendations. To perform cost benefit analysis. To recommend modifications of program goals. To measure program performance. To prepare cost and methods reports. To review project estimates vs. project award amounts and /or final project amount. None of the above. 11 With which construction project stakeholders have you interacted? Answer to this question is required Trades / Crafts workers Architects Engineers Project Managers Construction Managers Contractors Government Executives Elected Officials None of the above 12 Choose the statements that describes written communication skills you used to convey information on cost-related issues. Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials on cost-related issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials on cost-related or business related issues for various audiences. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence on cost-related or business related issues for signature by higher-level officials. I have edited cost-related reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience. I have responded to budget and cost-related congressional inquiries. None of the above. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.