Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a bachelor&rsquo;s degree in architecture, engineering, urban planning, business administration or a related field from an accredited college or university? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 ECQ 1 - Leading Change: Please describe your experience bringing about strategic change, both within and outside the organization, to meet organizational goals; and establishing an organizational vision and implementing it in a continuously changing environment. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 ECQ 2 - Leading People: Please describe your experience leading people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission and goals; providing an inclusive workplace that fosters the development of others; facilitating cooperation and teamwork; and supporting constructive resolution of conflicts. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 ECQ 3 - Results Driven: Please describe your experience meeting organizational goals and customer expectations; and making decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems and calculating risks. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 ECQ 4 - Business Acumen: Please describe your experience managing human, financial and information resources strategically. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 ECQ 5 - Building Coalitions: Please describe your experience building coalitions internally and with other Federal agencies, State and local governments, nonprofit and private sector organizations, foreign governments or international organizations to achieve common goals. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required Please provide narrative responses below that describe your technical expertise in the following areas: 7 &nbsp;1. &nbsp; Demonstrated experience providing strategic direction, management and oversight for the operational functions of a significantly complex organization including facilities operation and maintenance; safety, design, construction and project management; administration and modernization of information technology systems; productivity and cost-savings measures; strategic human capital management; and financial management to ensure budget, financial information and systems support strategic and annual plans. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 2.&nbsp; Demonstrated leadership and managerial level experience delivering facilities management services with a workforce comprised of both bargaining and non-bargaining unit personnel executing areas of expertise such as engineering; architecture; historic preservation; skilled trades such as electrical, gardening, masonry, mechanics, plumbing, painting and plaster, sheet metal and wood crafting; and visitor services. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 3. Proven leadership and management experience overseeing a large complex and/or historical facilities and the ability to communicate strategically to a broad group of constituencies to establish and maintain effective communications and working relationships including with Members of Congress, oversight committees, heads of federal and other appropriate government agencies and external organizations and communities to advance programs and objectives. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.