Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: &nbsp; 1.) Providing exercise activities (i.e. Yoga instruction, Pilates instruction (mat, reformer), Studio Cycling Classes, Group Strength Classes); 2.) Personal&nbsp;training individuals in exercise activities (i.e. cardiovascular conditioning, strength conditioning, mobility, and balance); 3.) Experience with and/or conducting exercise programs for special clinical populations (i.e.&nbsp;people with conditions&nbsp;such as hypertension, diabetes, obesity, or metabolic syndrome). &nbsp; &nbsp; 2 Select the following subject matter(s) that you are familiar with when screening for health and physical fitness. Answer to this question is required Health screening and risk stratification Cardiovascular condition Pulse rate and evaluation during rest and exercise Measures of strength, balance, mobility, flexibility and posture None of the above Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: &nbsp; 1.)&nbsp; A significant accumulation of time in teaching YOGA; 2.) Experience in leading group exercise activities, including Studio Cycling&nbsp;and Pilates (mat, reformer); 3.) Experience coaching/personally training individuals in exercise activities (i.e. cardiovascular conditioning, strength conditioning, mobility, and balance); 4.)&nbsp;Experience,&nbsp;leading Women&rsquo;s&nbsp;and Senior Programs; and 5.) Experience designing and leading exercise programs for special clinical populations (i.e., people with conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, obesity, or metabolic syndrome). &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 2 Have you performed or implemented a progressive resistive training program for clients with specific fitness goals Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 If you answered other to the above question, please list any other emergency lifesaving certificates you may possess that is not listed above. Maximum length of 800 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please select the professional organizations you have membership with. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required ACSM – American College of Sports Medicine NSCA – National Strength and Conditioning Association NATA – National Athletic Trainers’ Association AAAI / ISMA – American Aerobic Association International and International Sports Medicine Association ACE – American Council on Exercise NCBTMB – National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork NASM - National Academy of Sports Medicine An equivalent organization or other None of the above 4 Please choose what emergency lifesaving certificates do you currently possess? Answer to this question is required Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR/CCR) Automatic Electronic Defibrillator (AED) First Aid Bloodborne Pathogens Basic life support (BLS) Other I do not possess any of the above certifications 5 If you answered other to the above question, please list any other emergency lifesaving certificates you may possess that is not listed above. Maximum length of 800 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Please choose your experience with establishing and maintaining electronic membership accounts. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Please select the exercise activities you have led: Answer to this question is required Yoga Pilates, Mats Pilates, Reformer Strength Programs (machine, circuit, ball) Studio Cycling General nutrition Stress reduction/meditation Healthy weight reduction None of the above 8 Have you developed educational programs and activities for the following topics? Answer to this question is required Physical Fitness Exercising Safely Injury Prevention Stress Management General Nutrition Healthy Weight Reduction None of the above 9 Do you have a significant accumulation of time teaching&nbsp;YOGA and leading W omen's and S eniors programs? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Have you planned group and individual exercise programs that build cardiovascular endurance, balance, mobility, flexibility, and posture? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Have you developed health education and preventive health service programs (like blood pressure screening, stress screening, etc) in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Have you led group exercise activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Have you ever developed recreational programs in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other 14.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.