Position Title
Economist
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DH-13031014-26-MG
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
Eligibilities
.
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced (CFR 330.702) from a position in the competitive service from a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; it has been less than a year from your separation from Federal Service (see ICTAP eligibility period CFR 330.708.)
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Birmingham, AL
 Mobile, AL
 Phoenix, AZ
 Little Rock, AR
 Fresno, CA
 Los Angeles, CA
 Oakland, CA
 San Diego, CA
 San Francisco, CA
 San Jose, CA
 Denver, CO
 Washington, DC
 Miami, FL
 Tampa, FL
 Atlanta, GA
 Savannah, GA
 Honolulu, HI
 Chicago, IL
 Indianapolis, IN
 Kansas City, KS
 Louisville, KY
 New Orleans, LA
 Baltimore, MD
 Boston, MA
 Detroit, MI
 Minneapolis, MN
 Jackson, MS
 Saint Louis, MO
 Las Vegas, NV
 Newark, NJ
 Albuquerque, NM
 Buffalo, NY
 New York, NY
 Charlotte, NC
 Greensboro, NC
 Raleigh, NC
 Cincinnati, OH
 Cleveland, OH
 Oklahoma City, OK
 Philadelphia, PA
 Pittsburgh, PA
 San Juan, PR
 Greenville, SC
 Memphis, TN
 Nashville, TN
 Dallas, TX
 El Paso, TX
 Houston, TX
 San Antonio, TX
 Norfolk, VA
 Richmond, VA
 Seattle, WA
 Milwaukee, WI
2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No
3.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).
 Yes
 No
4.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?
 Yes
 No
Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Economist GS-0110-14, H008169
1.
Select the response that best describes your qualifications for a GS-13 Economist position.
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service. Specialized experience includes demonstrated professional experience applying methods and principles of economics and to research projects and programs; developing, analyzing, and presenting statistical information, recognizing and adopting new techniques to fit the needs of research projects and preparing comprehensive reports; conducting microeconomic analyses of administrative data to analyze outcomes related to employment (or other similar areas of microeconomics such as health or education) and having produced written and oral products based on such microeconomic analyses.
 I do not have the experience as described above.
2.
0110 Basic Requirement - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 I have successfully completed four full years of education above high school leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in economics, which included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus.
 I possess a combination of post high school education, which included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus plus appropriate experience or additional education which demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of the occupation and together meet the requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the basic requirements as described above.
