Skip to Main Content
 United States Department of Transportation
About DOT
Our Activities
Areas of Focus
FAA
Automated Vacancy Information Access Tool for Online Referral (AVIATOR) AVIATOR
Contact
Questions?

!!! Timeout Warning !!!
For security purposes, your session will end after 30 minutes of inactivity.

IMPORTANT: Typing or scrolling does NOT constitute activity. Activity is constituted by either saving information or navigating to a new page within the system. Please save often!

If your session ends due to inactivity you must return to USAJOBS and apply for the position again.

Questions? If you have questions about this job announcement, your application, or employment questions, please contact:
Lissette Castillo
lissette.castillo@faa.gov or call
1-1 (-847-) 29
Please note that we cannot answer questions regarding the USAJOBS website.

Technical Support for this Site: If you have technical questions about AVIATOR (for example: browser or printer issues) email AVIATOR Tech Support at FAAJobApplicationTechSupport@faa.gov or call 1-405-954-0911 or 1-877-378-4005 (toll-free), Monday through Friday, from 7:00 AM to 5:00 PM Central Time. Please note that the Technical Support Desk cannot answer questions regarding the USAJOBS website, employment questions or provide information about specific vacancies.


Help Topics
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Terms And Definitions
Aviation Safety Inspector Definitions
Additional Information About Employment With the FAA
List of FAA Personnel Offices
Preview Questionnaire
Announcement Info

Announcement number
AGL-ERR-25-2101-96016

Job Title
Technical Operations (AJW) Airway Transportation Systems Specialist Employee Requested Rea

Series
2101

Grade(s)
FV-F / FV-G / FV-H / FV-I / FV-J

Closing Date
9/14/2027

Status
Preview

Date Submitted


Note

This is a preview version only of the application questionnaire and is not intended to be filled out. This preview is intended to assist you in preparing your responses prior to beginning the application process. To complete an application you must click "Apply" from the job announcement and follow the appropriate steps.

Commitment to the United States Government
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5. I certify I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
Choose
No
Yes
Your Resume
Resume Placeholder
Your Documents
Document Placeholder Other
USAJOBS Profile
Are you a U.S. Citizen or national?
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
Have you served in the U.S. Armed Forces?
Veterans' Preference:
Military Service Period Dates:
Geographic Preferences
View Duty Location Listing

List your geographic locations in order of preference. Your preferences may be considered, but there are no guarantees on geographic area preferences. The location will ultimately be based upon agency needs. If you do not see a valid duty location listed, please contact us at:

9-AMC-AMI-SWIFT@faa.gov
Call 1-405-954-0911 or 1-877-378-4005 (toll free)
Mon-Fri, 7:00 AM - 5:00 PM Central Time

Maximum number of choices is limited to 25.

#	State	City/Facility	
	Add a new Location	Add City/Facility	Select
Applicant-Preferred Conditions of Employment and Federal Service
1. What is the lowest grade or payband that you wish to be considered for:
Choose
FV-F
FV-G
FV-H
FV-I
FV-J
2. Are you currently a permanent FAA employee?
Choose
No
Yes
Basic Qualifications
1. Are you currently holding a position in the 334, 802, 856, 2101, or 2210 series?
Choose
No
Yes
2. Please select your current series.
Choose
334 Computer Specialist
802 Engineering Technician
856 Electronics Technician
2101 Airway Transportation Systems Specialist
2210 Information Technology Specialist
Other
3. Please select your current pay band or grade.

You can access and print your SF-50 from the eOPF system https://eopf.opm.gov/dot.
Choose
F
G
H
I
J
7
9
10
11
12
13
14
4. If you are a current or previous 2101, please select the discipline(s) for which you have experience. Please select all that apply.
 Automation
 Communication
 Environmental
 Navigational Aid
 Radar
 National Air Space (NAS)
 NAS Operations Manager (NOM)
 Operational Control Center
5. Is this request in accordance with Article 84, PASS/FAA agreement for ATO dated January 14, 2025? Article 84 details.
Choose
No
Yes
Timeout Warning

Important: Typing and/or scrolling does NOT constitute "activity". Please save often!
For security purposes, your session will end after an extended period of inactivity. A warning will be presented to you if your session will timeout soon.

U.S. Department of Transportation

Federal Aviation Administration

800 Independence Avenue, SW

Washington, DC 20591

(866) TELL-FAA | (866) 835-5322

Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Web Policies & Notices
Disclaimer
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act