Skip to Main Content
 United States Department of Transportation
About DOT
Our Activities
Areas of Focus
FAA
Automated Vacancy Information Access Tool for Online Referral (AVIATOR) AVIATOR
Contact
Questions?

!!! Timeout Warning !!!
For security purposes, your session will end after 30 minutes of inactivity.

IMPORTANT: Typing or scrolling does NOT constitute activity. Activity is constituted by either saving information or navigating to a new page within the system. Please save often!

If your session ends due to inactivity you must return to USAJOBS and apply for the position again.

Questions? If you have questions about this job announcement, your application, or employment questions, please contact:
Regina Mulder
regina.mulder@faa.gov or call
1-1 (-718-) 55
Please note that we cannot answer questions regarding the USAJOBS website.

Technical Support for this Site: If you have technical questions about AVIATOR (for example: browser or printer issues) email AVIATOR Tech Support at FAAJobApplicationTechSupport@faa.gov or call 1-405-954-0911 or 1-877-378-4005 (toll-free), Monday through Friday, from 7:00 AM to 5:00 PM Central Time. Please note that the Technical Support Desk cannot answer questions regarding the USAJOBS website, employment questions or provide information about specific vacancies.


Help Topics
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Terms And Definitions
Aviation Safety Inspector Definitions
Additional Information About Employment With the FAA
List of FAA Personnel Offices
Preview Questionnaire
Announcement Info

Announcement number
AEA-ATO-26-RCM-96646

Job Title
Air Traffic Control Specialist

Series
2152

Grade(s)
AT-LH

Closing Date
6/15/2026

Status
Preview

Date Submitted


Note

This is a preview version only of the application questionnaire and is not intended to be filled out. This preview is intended to assist you in preparing your responses prior to beginning the application process. To complete an application you must click "Apply" from the job announcement and follow the appropriate steps.

Your Resume
Resume Placeholder
Your Documents
Document Placeholder Other
USAJOBS Profile
Are you a U.S. Citizen or national?
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
Have you served in the U.S. Armed Forces?
Veterans' Preference:
Military Service Period Dates:
Geographic Preferences
Are you willing to work at the following duty location:
 Pennsylvania - Philadelphia
Applicant-Preferred Conditions of Employment and Federal Service
1. What is the lowest grade or payband that you wish to be considered for:
Choose
AT-LH
2a. Are you currently a permanent FAA employee?
Choose
No
Yes
2b. Are you currently a temporary FAA employee?
Choose
No
Yes
2c. Are you currently a temporary FAA employee serving under the Retired Military Air Traffic Controllers Program?
Choose
No
Yes
2d. Are you a DOT employee working in an agency other than the FAA and have completed a one year probationary period or trial period?
Choose
No
Yes
3. Are you a:
Former permanent employee of the FAA who had successfully completed a one-year probationary period OR
Current or former permanent civilian employee from other competitive or excepted service agencies who have completed a one-year probationary period or trial period in the competitive or excepted service.
Choose
No
Yes
4. Are you a preference eligible and/or veteran who was honorably discharged from the Armed Forces after completing at least three (3) years of continuous active service?
Definitions of Preference Eligible and Active Service.
Choose
No
Yes
5. Do any of your relatives work for the agency or government organization to which you are submitting this application? (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister.)
Choose
No
Yes
5a. If question #5 is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and department, agency, or branch of the Armed Forces for which your relative(s) works in the space below.
6. If you heard about this job through one of our recruiting events, please enter your event code.
Timeout Warning

Important: Typing and/or scrolling does NOT constitute "activity". Please save often!
For security purposes, your session will end after an extended period of inactivity. A warning will be presented to you if your session will timeout soon.

U.S. Department of Transportation

Federal Aviation Administration

800 Independence Avenue, SW

Washington, DC 20591

(866) TELL-FAA | (866) 835-5322

Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Web Policies & Notices
Disclaimer
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act