Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your work experience with Native collections? Answer to this question is required I have experience with all of these three: contemporary, archaeological and ethnographic Native collections (demonstrating the use of both basic archaeological terminology and basic collections-based anthropological research methods). I have experience with two of these three: contemporary, archaeological or ethnographic Native collections (demonstrating the use of either basic archaeological terminology or basic collections-based anthropological research methods). I have experience with one of these three: contemporary, archaeological or ethnographic Native collections (demonstrating the use of either basic archaeological terminology or basic collections-based anthropological research methods). None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience performing research about Native art, culture or history? Answer to this question is required I have performed this research in both the United States and other regions of the Western Hemisphere, and I am familiar with some of the terminology used to describe Native collections. I have performed this research in both the United States and other regions of the Western Hemisphere, and I am familiar with some of the terminology used to describe Native collections and can give specific examples of how different tribes may use different terminology. I have performed this research in either the United States or other regions of the Western Hemisphere, and I am familiar with some of the terminology used to describe Native collections. I have performed this research in either the United States or other regions of the Western Hemisphere, and I am familiar with some of the terminology used to describe Native collections and can give specific examples of how different tribes may use different terminology. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in using a museum collections information system? Answer to this question is required I have used Mimsy XG to query and record collections management data. I have used a museum CIS to query and record collections management data. I have used a museum CIS to query collections management data but not record it. I have not used a museum CIS to query and record collections management data. 5 Which of the following describes your experience dealing with a museum or cultural organization's collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled a museum or cultural organization’s collections on a regular and recurring basis. I have created mounts for a museum or cultural organization’s collections on a regular and recurring basis. I have tracked a museum or cultural organization’s collections on a regular and recurring basis. I have stored a museum or cultural organization’s collections on a regular and recurring basis. None of the above. 6 Which of the following tools have you used moving an organization&rsquo;s collections? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have used forklifts. I have used manual or electronic pallet jacks. I have used Wave work assist vehicles. I have used scissor lifts. I have used carts. I have used ladders. None of the above 7 Which of the following describes your work experience coordinating visits or tours for a Native cultural organization or organization with Native collections with a variety of constituencies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have coordinated these visits or tours with researchers. I have coordinated these visits or tours with academics. I have coordinated these visits or tours with museum professionals. I have coordinated these visits or tours with tribal visitors. I have coordinated these visits or tours with the public. None of the above. 8 Which of the following activities have you done in performing visitor services for a museum or cultural organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated with potential visitors to determine their interests. I have performed collections database searches for objects relevant to visitors’ interests. I have produced and disseminated a variety of collections database reports. I have pulled objects for visit. I have prepared a workspace for visitor and objects. I have returned objects to proper storage location using proper handling and object tracking techniques. I have coordinated visits for special programs or groups such as VIPs or Native representatives. None of the above. 9 In which of the following areas have you worked with Native peoples or communities and collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating and collaborating with Native peoples. I have experience providing access to collections for Native peoples. I have experience developing and facilitating partnerships with Native peoples. I have experience providing training for professional development of Native peoples. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.