Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following ornamental plastering methods have you applied? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Skip-troweling Sponging Brushing Knocking down Swirl texturing Graffito None of the above 3 Which decorative items have you created with plaster? Answer to this question is required Baseboards Cornices Medallions Rosettes Replacement pieces for damaged statues / sculptures None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to finish drywall? Answer to this question is required Taping Blocking Skimming Sanding / Sponging None of the above 5 Have you mixed pigments into plaster to match an existing hue? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience creating tools to create the requested plaster finish? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Trompe l'oeil Stenciling Striping Glazing Graining Sponging Antiquing Sign painting Painting seals/murals Painting ornamental plaster Gold leafing Texturing Lettering None of the above 8 Do you have experience leveling plaster coatings to create a smooth surface? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience plastering surfaces. Answer to this question is required I have independently repaired decorative plaster work (e.g., rosettes, medallions) or created custom molds. I have independently repaired plaster walls and ceilings using a three-coat plaster process. I have assisted a plasterer by performing demolition, mixing plaster, or applying scratch coat. I have assisted with a construction project by setting up drop cloths, retrieving materials, or constructing plastic walls (e.g., zip walls) to contain dust. None of the above. 10 Do you have experience repairing decorative plaster work (e.g., medallions, cornices)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for repairing walls and decorative fixtures with plaster? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which safety equipment have you used on the job?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Steel Toe Boots Protective Eyewear Mask/Respirator Work Gloves Safety Harness None of the Above 13 Which instructions have you followed to repair plaster surfaces? Answer to this question is required Room blueprints Bagged plaster mix instructions Work orders Wall numbering systems None of the above 14 Which tools have you used to prepare drywall/plaster surfaces for paint? Answer to this question is required Sandpaper Setting-type joint compounds A drill Sanding sponges Sanding poles Drywall pans Drywall knives (12-inch, etc.) Sanding screens None of the above 15 Which tools/equipment have you used to prep, paint, or apply decorative finishes to surfaces? Answer to this question is required Softening brushes/blending brushes Stippling brushes Sea sponges Floggers Graining combs Feathers Air brushes Squirrel tail brushes Gilding tips Agate burnishers Spectrophotometer None of the above 16 Do you have experience repairing walls or plaster work at heights reached with ladders, scaffolding, or hydraulic lifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you been in an environment (e.g., work, training, a home improvement project) that required you to wear personal protective equipment (PPE)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 I have interpreted and closely followed oral instructions given by others. Answer to this question is required True False 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.