Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Biological Sciences positions. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. Answer to this question is required I have completed requirements for bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college/university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 New question: Which of the following best describes your experience caring for animals at an AZA-accredited institution? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and implementing protocols for and overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. I have experience overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and executing procedures in housing, feeding, pest control and physical constraint of animal husbandry. Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and implementing procedures for housing, feeding, pest control, physical constraint of exotic animal husbandry in zoo setting. I have experience implementing, but not developing procedures for housing, feeding, pest control, physical constraint of exotic animal husbandry. I have no experience developing or implementing procedures for housing, feeding, pest control, physical constraint of exotic animal husbandry. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with developing, implementing and executing program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have prepared and tracked the program budgets as a regular component of my work. I have prepared and tracked budgets for specific projects. I have contributed to the development of an annual program budget. I have gathered budgetary information for specific line items, as directed under supervision. I have no experience preparing budgets. 6 Which of the following best describes your work in writing and developing accurate position descriptions, develop staffing plans, discuss organizational requirements? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience managing conservation and developing research and best practice projects for biodiversity conservation? Answer to this question is required I have experience providing leadership for teams of research conducting field work and research for mega infrastructure project, collaborating with researchers of other institutions to develop research, and publishing and providing best practices for conservation and sustainable development. I have also managed at least 4 international projects a year and published 2 or more papers. I have experience providing leadership for teams of research conducting field work. I have also managed at least 2 international projects a year and published 1 or more papers. I have experience providing leadership for teams of research conducting field work. I have also managed at least 1 project a year. I have no experience managing conservation, developing research, and working on best practice projects for biodiversity conservation. 8 Which statement best describes your previous supervisory experience? Answer to this question is required I have managed a team of keepers and other support staff whereby total direct reports equally 5 or greater. Provided clear, consistent goals and guidelines to those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance, including taking disciplinary action when required. Responsible for creating performance plans and conducting performance appraisals, coordinated schedules, training, and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided clear, consistent goals and guidelines to those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance, including taking disciplinary action when required. Responsible for creating performance plans and conducting performance appraisals and coordinating schedules, training, and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided goals and guidelines for those under my supervision and provided regular feedback regarding performance. Participated in creating performance plans and performance reviews along with a supervisor. Coordinated schedules, training, and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided goals and guidelines for those under my supervision and provided regular feedback regarding performance. Participated in creating performance plans and performance reviews along with a supervisor. Coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have coordinated schedules for supervised employees. Observed others creating performance plans and conducting performance reviews. No previous supervisory experience. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.