Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector leading, coaching, mentoring or training others (formally or informally) in a communications or customer service function and experience monitoring or managing customer-facing initiatives. Examples include : leading projects to delivery government services to the public or managing communications for a retirement, healthcare, or financial services operation. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector as described above?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the following options related to skill in managing resources to meet customer service goals and objectives, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience identifying customer issues and developing and implementing solutions experience leading projects experience measuring communications effectiveness against predetermined goals and objectives to determine if objectives were met experience developing project plans for team members to achieve improvements to a business process or implement a legislative change none of the above 3 From the following options related to skill in customer service delivery, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience playing the lead role on a team experience analyzing customer communications and working with a team to develop and implement process improvements related to the effectiveness of communications experience developing, delivering, and measuring the effectiveness of customer communications experience serving as a subject matter expert in communications projects or initiatives none of the above 4 From the following options related to knowledge of customer service performance objectives and how to measure them, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience providing communications, legislative, or customer service direction to other managers and evaluating the quality of deliverables experience developing remediation plans and tracking the plan experience developing performance objectives either for individuals, programs, or work units experience leading the solution of issues related to communications or customer service none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).