Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Accountant must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to questions regarding travel vouchers; and/or I have resolved discrepancies when vendor did not receive payment; and/or I have resolved customer billing questions or complaints; and/or I have explained account activity reports to customers, inmates, or staff. I have prepared written analysis of financial statements and/or operations; and/or I have prepared responses to Finance Branch Memos and Audit Guidance Memos that required detailed accounting information; and/or I have assembled financial reports to supply management with a written assessment of operations; and/or I have prepared written requests for write-off’s and/or journal entries and provided clear explanations that fully explained the problem and corrective action needed to fix the problem; and/or I have drafted recommendations for changes to policy that have been implemented into policy used by the entire agency. I have prepared written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have proofread written documents for subordinates or co-workers. None of the above. 4 The Accountant must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of Budget and Fund (B&F) projects to the Salaries and Expenses (S&F) appropriation and closed Budget and Fund (B&F) projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. I have calculated ratios to measure efficiencies; and/or I have determined general ledger account amounts were valid; and/or I have analyzed monthly financial reports; and/or I have monitored incoming invoices for unusual trends. None of the above. 5 The Accountant must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed job costing data results for accuracy of the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control checks; and/or I have prepared the monthly close out folder from accounting source documents. I have reviewed prior year entries and submitted requests to the Central or Regional Office outlining the corrective action needed to account for the effect on the prior year financial statements; and/or I have participated in program reviews by reviewing accounting information and evaluating whether or not the information is processed within the policy guidelines; and/or I have collected information from the automated accounting system in order to formulate responses to Finance Branch Memos (FBM). I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data; and/or I have collected information and made the entries necessary to respond to audit data calls, such as the year-end expense recognitions for accrued payables or staff annual leave; and/or I have prepared annual accounts receivables report. None of the above. 6 The Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with double entry accounting; and/or I have accrued accounting to include the full accounting cycle in the preparation of worksheets, ledgers, and journals; and/or I have re-processed problem payment for vendors with returned payments. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Accountant must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written determinations and findings that documented actions taken with vendors; and/or I have made recommendations for Statements of Work to technical staff; and/or I have responded in writing to public inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have developed organizational procedures; and/or I have recommended and implemented accounting policy affecting the agency; and/or I have written fund status reports that reflected the budget combined with cost reports and special ratios where appropriate through utilization of the SAP-HANA. I have prepared written analysis of financial statements and/or operations; and/or I have prepared responses to Finance Branch Memos and Audit Guidance Memos that required detailed accounting information; and/or I have assembled financial reports to supply management with a written assessment of operations; and/or I have prepared written requests for write-off’s and/or journal entries and provided clear explanations that fully explained the problem and corrective action needed to fix the problem; and/or I have drafted recommendations for changes to policy that have been implemented into policy used by the entire agency. I have prepared written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have proofread written documents for subordinates or co-workers. None of the above. 4 The Accountant must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of Budget and Fund (B&F) projects to the Salaries and Expenses (S&F) appropriation and closed Budget and Fund (B&F) projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. I have researched issues for management and program office personnel regarding accounting regulations; and/or I have interpreted accounting report statements and data to identify deviations from plans; and/or I have applied Federal and agency regulations in verifying monthly disbursements; and/or I have researched Comptroller General decisions to determine employee’s travel entitlements. None of the above. 5 The Accountant must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed monthly verification of cash receipt and disbursement account balances; and/or I have processed, maintained, and reconciled inmate accounts; and/or I have met with management officials to evaluate financial data and information derived from statements and reports; and/or I have developed new procedures for reporting or reconciling accounting information; and/or I have developed proof checks for a new automated accounting system. I have reviewed prior year entries and submitted requests to the Central or Regional Office outlining the corrective action needed to account for the effect on the prior year financial statements; and/or I have participated in program reviews by reviewing accounting information and evaluating whether or not the information is processed within the policy guidelines; and/or I have collected information from the automated accounting system in order to formulate responses to Finance Branch Memos (FBM). I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data; and/or I have collected information and made the entries necessary to respond to audit data calls, such as the year-end expense recognitions for accrued payables or staff annual leave; and/or I have prepared annual accounts receivables report. None of the above. 6 The Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified errors in the Financial Management System report and took corrective action; and/or I have reviewed general ledger to ensure account balances are correct; and/or I have compiled Accounting report statements by eliminating discrepancies; and/or I have determined costs used to forecast expenditures for quarter or year; and/or I have resolved cash differences identified in the proof check; and/or I have identified trends in late payments from vendors and took corrective action. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).