Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to apply reasoning to analyze and evaluate information`s relevance, significance, and validity in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. 2 Describe your highest level of experience with equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have experience in this area but have not applied it routinely in my duties. I have experience in this area and have applied it regularly at a unit or office level. I have experience in this area and have supervised it on a regional level. I have extensive experience in this area and have managed it on a national level. 3 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 4 Select the response that most accurately describes your level of knowledge in basic fact finding and investigative techniques: Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of or experience in this subject area. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence in problem solving efforts. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to general guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence to solve problems or to develop new techniques, methods or procedures. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings in complex situations requiring deviation from standard protocols, and that required the development of alternative approaches. In addition, I have independently evaluated programs, policies or procedures and made recommendations for improvement. 5 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One on One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 6 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of the Executive Orders (E.O.), rules, regulations, and policies governing intelligence? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience working on a team or as a team leader? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a multi-disciplinary team on projects or studies. I have experience as a team leader responsible for planning, organizing, and coordinating work tasks. I have experience as a team leader responsible for setting work priorities and defining critical work paths. I have experience as a team leader responsible for monitoring performance and implementation to meet goals and objectives related to the organization`s mission. I have experience as a team member with some responsibility for planning, performance and implementation of projects and studies to meet goals and objectives related to the organization`s mission. I have experience working on a team that independently handled problems involving grants requirements where there are no existing guidelines. I have experience working on a team and handling problems involving grants requirements where there are established guidelines. I have completed course work or formal training on team leadership or teamwork. None of the above 8 Select the answer that BEST describes your experience with writing and reviewing reports, memoranda, and/or operational plans for clarity and accuracy: Answer to this question is required I have experience in leading a research group that has written project reports and memoranda, or overseen, planned, executed or implemented operational plans. I have experience in writing project reports or memoranda, or serving in a key role overseeing, planning, executing, or implementing operational plans. I have experience in reviewing, analyzing and modifying reports. I have experience in writing assigned research reports. I have experience in reviewing, analyzing and modifying reports, with assistance from a supervisor or senior management official. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan, coordinate, organize and direct the assessment efforts of internal intelligence policy / oversight requirements for a large organization and understanding its relationship with the intelligence community? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have education and/or training in strategic planning and coordination, but have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 11 Select the actions you have taken on the job in instructing, consulting with and/or advising others: Answer to this question is required Instructed industry or other entities subject to federal laws or regulations on how to prepare certain documents (e.g., how to write an effective disclosure from a defense company): Educated foreign embassies or other international entities on pertinent programs and policies (e.g., end use monitoring programs). Provided expert guidance on policies, practices, procedures, and/or interpretation of U. S. laws and regulations to affected parties on compliance matters. Provided information and interpretive guidance on intelligence trends indicating suspicious or potential diversion or misuse of U.S. technology. Delivered formal lecture or instruction on export control compliance in a classroom or conference setting. None of the above. 12 Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings for presentation to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 13 Which of the following computer resources have you used? Answer to this question is required General internet search engines (i.e. Google, Yahoo, etc.) Internet subscriber search engines (i.e. Accurint, Choicepoint, Dun & Bradstreet, etc.) Law enforcement databases (i.e. NCIC, TECS, etc.) Internal agency databases and search engines Academic databases and search engines Local government databases None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.