Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 GS-12: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-12: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your level of experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing customer service. I have training, but no experience in performing customer service. I have identified customer needs and preferences, provided customer service, and adhered to quality standards, following specific instructions. I have identified customer needs and preferences, provided customer service, adhered to quality standards in complex or ill-defined situations, or in situations requiring analysis and interpretation of general guidelines and applying them to new situations. I have identified customer needs and preferences, provided customer service, and adhered to quality standards in situations that were complex or that involved difficult interpersonal relations requiring conflict resolution, persuasion or convincing others to achieve my goals. 2 Which of the following choices best describes your experience applying legislation, statutes, policies and/or regulations to Information Technology? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task I have performed this task with supervision (e.g., research assistant, intern) I have performed this task as part of a team (e.g., coauthor, team member) I have independently performed this task (e.g., sole author or team leader) 3 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience performing troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, performing troubleshooting I have knowledge of, or education in, performing troubleshooting but no experience I have assisted others in performing troubleshooting I have performed troubleshooting to isolate and resolve software/hardware problems I have performed troubleshooting and have used this experience to manage/train others 4 Indicate all of the environments in which you have performed troubleshooting: Answer to this question is required In production environments In testing and lab environments For customers or help desk For instructional purposes None of the above 5 In which of the following events have you communicated or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Training sessions None of the above 6 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 8 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience using an automated testing tool to test applications or systems? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, automated testing I have knowledge of, or education in, automated testing but no experience I was responsible for executing automated test cases I designed and implemented automated test cases 9 Which of the following choices best reflects your experience in systems integration? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in an integration project I have functioned as a team member on an integration project I have led a team integrating department-wide systems/application functions I have performed as a technical architect for an integration project 10 What is your level of experience with project management? Answer to this question is required I have no coursework or practical experience in project management I have coursework in project management, but no practical experience I have been a member of a long-term project team I have had responsibility for managing one project of moderate length (i.e. 6 months or less) I have had responsibility for managing one long-term project (i.e., greater than one year) I have had responsibility for managing several long-term projects (i.e., greater than one year) 11 Which of the following choices best describes your experience developing implementation plans for long-term projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience I have performed work in these areas, but my work was monitored I have performed work in these areas independently I have mentored others in these areas 12 Please select the answer that BEST describes your experience with database backup and recovery procedures. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with database backup and recovery procedures. I have education or training in database backup and recovery procedures, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I designed and implemented database backup and recovery procedures. 13 Which of the following choices best reflects your knowledge of, and experience in Information Assurance standards and practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, Information Assurance standards and practices I have knowledge of, or education in, Information Assurance standards and practices but no experience I have knowledge of, and have worked with Information Assurance standards and practices I have been a member of a formal Information Assurance standards and practices team I have led Information Assurance teams and/or projects I am certified in Information Assurance standards and practices 14 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience implementing IT security? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, IT security I have knowledge of, or education in, IT security but no experience I have assisted others in implementing IT security I have implemented IT security to train customers on IT security awareness I have implemented IT security to secure and validate the IT infrastructure I have implemented IT security to manage/train staff 15 Please describe your knowledge of auditing and evaluating standards, procedures, and practices for planning and/or conducting audits and evaluations involving a variety of programs, functions, and systems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior auditor. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior auditor. I have supervised other auditors in performing this task. I have trained others in performing this task, and/or others normally consult me for assistance as an expert in performing this task. 16 Describe your level of experience or expertise in providing user support for software applications: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in providing user support for software applications. I have education or training in providing user support for software applications, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 What is your level of experience leading an organization of information technology practitioners providing LAN support to users with a highly visible and critical mission? Answer to this question is required I have no experience leading an organization of IT practitioners providing LAN support to users with a highly visible and critical mission. I have led an organization of IT practitioners providing LAN support to an organization of less than 1,000 users with a highly visible and critical mission. I have led an organization of IT practitioners providing LAN support to 1,000-2,499 users with a highly visible and critical mission. I have led an organization of IT practitioners providing LAN support to an organization of 2,500-4,999 users with a highly visible and critical mission. I have led an organization of IT practitioners providing LAN support to an organization of 5,000 or more users with a highly visible and critical mission. 18 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with, Information Technology requirements gathering, analysis and verification? Answer to this question is required I have independently participated in multiple requirements analysis phases for concurrent projects with multiple stakeholder groups. I have education or training in methodologies used to perform requirements analysis. However, I have not yet applied these skills on the job. I have independently participated in requirements gathering, analysis and verification on individual projects with more than one stakeholder group. I have performed requirements gathering, analysis and verification tasks under the direction of a supervisor or more senior personnel. I have no education, training or experience with requirements gathering, analysis or verification processes. 19 Which of the following BEST describes your experience managing an integrated collaboration development effort? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience managing an integrated collaboration development effort. I have knowledge of, or education/training in, managing an integrated collaboration development effort, but no work experience. I have been a working member of an integrated collaboration development team performing duties as assigned by a senior staff member. I have been a core member of an integrated collaboration development team with responsibility for managing a specific portion of the development effort. I have functioned as the overall manager of an integrated collaboration project with responsibility for all phases of the development effort. 20 Which of the following choices best describes the extent to which you have trained others on software and/or hardware? Answer to this question is required I have not conducted training in these areas. I have conducted one-on-one training in these areas. I have assisted with training for a group of users in these areas. I have conducted the training for a group of users in these areas. I have coordinated the training for a group of users in these areas. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.