Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, or repair of refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. I have installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. None of the above. 2 Have you responded to and resolved routine air conditioning room calls independently? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 For which refrigeration/air conditioning systems have you independently installed, maintained, or repaired? Answer to this question is required Computer Room Air Conditioning Walk-in refrigerators or freezers Reach-ins Under counter boxes Fan Cool Units Cold pans Refrigerated cold pans Ice Machines Blast chillers Heat Pumps Multi-zone refrigeration units None of the above 4 Have you independently interpreted refrigeration and air conditioning drawings or schematics to explain to or instruct others how to install, maintain, or repair equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 6 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 7 Which statements describe your experience installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have replaced bearings (e.g., motor, fan). I have replaced a belt. I have replaced a motor. I have repaired a leaking a coil. I have run steam or water cooling lines. I have replaced valves. I have changed out a thermostat. None of the above. 8 Which response best describes your highest level of experience related to commercial air handler units? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge or experience related to commercial air handler units. I understand commercial air handler units based on my training or education, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have installed and maintained commercial air handler units. I have troubleshot and diagnosed issues related to commercial air handler units. 9 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which tools or equipment have you independently used to install, maintain, or repair refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Volt meter Gantry Motor lift Power hoist Bearing pullers Grease gun Core Bore machine Airflow meter Bearing heater Bearing puller Refrigeration gage Grinders Flywheel drives Valve fittings Gaskets Piston Rings Springs, Floats None of the above 11 Which refrigeration/air conditioning problems have you identified or assisted others in troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Strange noises coming from the equipment Pool of water beneath or around the equipment Strange smell coming from the unit No power going to the unit Loose parts Damaged parts None of the above 12 What troubleshooting work have you done to correct refrigeration and air conditioning problems? Answer to this question is required Corrected leaking control valves Responded to strange smells coming from the unit Responded to complaints that a room was too hot or too cold Unclogged drains in a fan coil unit Redirected airflow Checked humidity in a room None of the above 13 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting refrigeration/air conditioning problems at work? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created new solutions for unique equipment/system issues. None of the above. 14 Do you have experience explaining the proper methods for refrigeration/air conditioning equipment installation, maintenance, or repair to others? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.