Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Do you have experience managing an internship, fellowship, research, or scholarly program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following describe your experience with internship and/or fellowship programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am highly experienced in the administration of internship and/or fellowship programs, to include credentialing, stipend management, visa issues, on-boarding and off-boarding, and coordination with mentors and supervisors. I have some experience with internship and fellowship programs, such as completing and filing applications. I have no experience in administering internship and/or fellowship programs. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience working with internship program policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training working with internship program policies and procedures. I have had training on internship program policies and procedures but have not used it on the job. I have experience implementing internship program policies and procedures under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance. I have experience interpreting and implementing internship program policies and procedures independently, and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. 5 In which of the following settings have you managed an internship, fellowship, or research program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal agency Academic institution Nonprofit organization Museum or cultural center Scientific organization Other None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience providing customer service to the public and/or staff? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received telephone calls, inquiries or requests for information, and determined referral or provided information to caller. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems and taken corrective action. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members or personally handling matters not requiring technical knowledge. I have used customer service skills to work with individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have worked effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have independently followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements describes your ability to communicate effectively both in verbal and written communications in order to explain and promote assigned program initiatives? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am regularly responsible for verbal presentations and preparing written reports as part of my employment. I am regularly consulted and asked to make recommendations or provide assessments in my areas of my responsibility. I have prepared written reports documenting decisions and recommendations. I have experience leading teams and facilitating their progress toward team goals. I have worked as a member of a task-related team accountable for team goals. I have received formal team training. I have experience reviewing and editing technical and/or non-technical materials, identifying inadequacies in format, grammar, or construction accordance with accepted standards. I have maintained effective working relationships with staff at all levels. I have dealt calmly and effectively in high stress situations (tight deadlines, hostile individuals, etc.). None of the above. 8 Do you have experience monitoring for compliance with national or international rules, law, and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following describes your experience working with research programs with international scholars and international research institutions? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience managing and evaluating research programs with international scholars and international research institutions. I have experience developing, implementing, managing, and evaluating research programs with international scholars and international research institutions. I have experience managing research programs with international scholars and international research institutions. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.