Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study-business administration, accounting, law, marketing, statistics, production management, industrial management, or other fields related to the position. OR B. Experience that demonstrated: Skill in developing, implementing, administering, evaluating, monitoring, or coordinating programs, policies, regulations, and procedures concerned with the management, control, utilization, or disposition of personal or industrial property. Knowledge of the values and uses of property items, merchandising methods, marketing techniques and outlets, or general trade practices related to the disposition of property; and/or the ability to understand and evaluate business practices relating to the acquisition, control, use, consumption, maintenance, and preservation of property. Working knowledge of equipment, machinery, tools, materials, or other items of personal or real property. Knowledge of Government sales policies, regulations, and methods. Knowledge of contract provisions, and ability to interpret and apply contract clauses and Government procurement regulations. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Industrial Property Management Specialist must establish lines of verbal communication concerning personal property with Property Officers, Department Heads, Regional Offices, Central Office, Executive Staff and, other Federal agency staff (i.e., General Services Administration, Defense Reutilization and Marking Services, Department of Justice, etc.). He/she must be able to accurately articulate personal property regulations, policies, issues, problem resolution concerning property and Annual Property Officers Training Class. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in discussions regarding property acquisition procedures; and/or I have compiled responses for property management issues at the institution level; and/or I have assisted in compiling responses for property management issues at a local level. I have communicated directly with General Services Administration regarding the acquisition of excess/surplus property or related regulations and policies; and/or I have facilitated annual Property Officer Training for new Property Officers; and/or I have worked as the liaison to the immediate supervisor in establishing Property Management policies and procedure for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP); and/or I have maintained liaison with other agencies and departments regarding property management issues; and/or I have represented management at conferences with agencies, and other groups in regards to the organization; and/or I have exchanged complex technical data and information with various management levels within headquarters, regional and field locations regarding acquisition, utilization, distribution or disposition of personal property issues. I have interacted with Bureau of Prisons (BOP) managers while involved in a project; and/or I have interpreted technical information through direct contacts with agency/organization peers and co-workers; and/or I have assisted with annual Property Officer Training for new Property Officers; and/or I have communicated with agency personnel regarding property utilization and disposal; and/or I have assisted with the development or revisions of Property Management policies and procedures for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP). None of the above. 4 The Industrial Property Management Specialist must be able to communicate in writing concerning personal property with all levels of personnel, both internal and external to the organization. He/she must be able to articulate in writing personal property regulations, policies, issues, problem resolution concerning property and monthly acquisition reports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memorandum to staff to advise them of new policies/procedures; and/or I have assisted in preparing disposal schedules; and/or I have initiated email/memorandum contact with staff to obtain information concerning excess/surplus property; and/or I have corresponded with others regarding routine excess/surplus property acquisition procedures. I have developed and implemented standard operating procedures which streamlined current operations; and/or I have developed internal policies and procedures to maintain compliance with changes to national policy; and/or I have prepared personal and real property correspondences and reports; and/or I have developed a curriculum to train co-workers and others on property disposal policies and procedures; and/or I have prepared various reports and memoranda for area of responsibility. I have updated existing internal operating procedures/policies; and/or I have prepared correspondence to Warden/CEO/supervisor regarding status of special projects; and/or I have modified existing property policy for internal use; and/or I have assisted with revising an existing lesson plan/curriculum for property disposal/utilization training sessions. None of the above. 5 The Property Management Specialist must be able to organize, coordinate and direct the operation with little direct supervision. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted property supervisors in organizing property records and files; and/or I have performed warehouse distributions, as dictated by standard operating procedures, or instructions given; and/or I have assisted in coordinating the transfer of excess property to another location; and/or I have resolved property problems in accordance with property policy and guidelines. I have acquired property from the General Services Administration and Defense Reutilization and Marking Services, with guidance; and/or I have maintained inventories of warehoused property to ensure knowledge of items on hand; and/or I have distributed pre-approved property for utilization or disposal. I have independently acquired property from General Services Administration, Defense Reutilization and Marking Services, or Department of Justice, based on agency/organization needs, within required timeframes; and/or I have assisted in reviews and analysis of institution real property reports and records; and/or I have planned, prioritized, and met time-sensitive assignments with minimal direct supervision. None of the above. 6 The Industrial Property Management Specialist must possess a thorough knowledge of the acquisition, utilization, distribution, and disposition of excess/surplus property as well as knowledge of the upkeep and overall operation of the Sentry Property Management System and Sentry Real Property Management System within the Central Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained property and property records for a correctional institution or division of an agency; and/or I have resolved property problems related to unique or special property provisions by following established guidelines or precedents; and/or I have used established control methods for maintaining division property. I have maintained property and property records for a department; and/or I have participated on a committee with local area managers to resolve errors in data collection and inventory of property; and/or I have used appropriate procedures to control property within the department. I have maintained property and property records for various divisions of an agency; and/or I have resolved property problems related to unique or special property provisions for which no guidelines or precedents have been established; and/or I have trained staff on the use of different types of control methods and procedures to control various types of property for the agency, Sentry Property Management System and Sentry Real Property Management System. None of the above. 7 The Industrial Property Management Specialist supervises and evaluates the performance of subordinates. Additionally, he/she also maintains planning, organizing, and reviewing work, administering personnel matters, and dealing effectively with employees and union representatives regarding employee-management concerns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing tracking systems and programs to ensure assignments and deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinates’ job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program. I have prioritized workflow among available staff, adjusting when necessary; and/or I have completed performance appraisals; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have counseled an employee on performance, provided guidance and monitored for improvement. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have supervised and organized inmate or staff work assignment. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).