Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [10892] Do you have the ability to lead, supervise and assign work of a variety of mixed trade positions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [6382] Please indicate the average number of technicians you directly led on a daily basis as a Team Leader. Answer to this question is required 3 or more technicians 1-2 technicians None of the above. 4 [1137] Do you have experience in planning projects for this trade? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [3436] Select all that apply(ies) to your experience leading team members to accomplish organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Led team members in the achievement of organizational goals and objectives. Encouraged team members to meet mission needs and led them successfully on projects, programs or task groups. Demonstrated the ability to inspire team members to incorporate vision, strategic planning, and elements of quality management into activities. Influenced team members to ensure that products and services reflect organizational goals and objectives. None of the above. 6 [18210] Select the statements that represent the duties you have performed as a manager, supervisor, or team leader. Answer to this question is required Set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. Reviewed the work of team members and provided guidance and training. Set program or project goals and objectives to be accomplished. Monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. Established and tracked program-related performance measures. Established and monitored program delivery cost controls. Established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. Set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. Prepared a budget for a division/field office and addressed budgetary issues regarding programs I have managed or overseen. Led a team or group with various levels of experience, skills, orientation, or perspective. Established and coordinated office policies, standard operating procedures, etc. for my work unit. Prepared schedules for completion of work. Assigned work to team members based on priorities. Evaluated performance and conducted performance reviews. Formulated, planned and adjusted work operations to meet changing requirements within available resources and with limited sacrifice of quantity or quality of work. None of the above 7 [8912] Select the response that best describes your experience as a Marine Machinery Mechanic. Answer to this question is required I have journeymen level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with only limited supervisory overview. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I am considered an expert and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have journeyman level experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. Work independently with overview of my work performed by a supervisor or higher-level employee. Lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics without any supervisory assistance. Perform complex and difficult tasks of the trade using my own initiative. I have experience, and independently dismantle, relocate, modify, maintain, align, assemble, install, test, and repair new and existing equipment. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess some independent experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform most tasks with little direction from a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance and guidance on advanced projects. I rarely need to have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. I have experience and training, which demonstrated that I possess adequate experience performing marine machinery mechanical tasks. I perform these tasks under the direction of a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance on any new projects, but I am alert and progressive and I usually have to be shown only once in order to acquire the knowledge and ability to perform the task. I have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. None of the above. 8 [1730] Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff, taking into account individual goals, values, and sensitivities. Answer to this question is required Provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish it in a timely, satisfactory manner. Led, supervised, and managed professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of programs and projects. Led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels. Led a management evaluation or assistance team to provide assistance on organizational programs. As a senior staff member, served as acting supervisor on occasion, and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others. Led, directed, and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects. No experience in developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff. 9 [5083] Select the equipment on which you have been trained and have a good knowledge of the internal workings, BUT have NEVER actually worked on the equipment. Answer to this question is required Hatch Covers Malfunctioning Valves Diesel Engines Blowers Anchor Windlasses Boilers Boat Davits Condensers Steering Mac Evaporators Hydraulic Systems Centrifugal Pumps Reciprocating Pumps Turbines Compressors Steering Engines Piping Systems Tank Arrangements Cargo Handling Winches None of the above 10 [5086] Do you have experience repairing leaking sea-valves and fittings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [16354] Select the engine types upon which you have maintenance training and experience. Answer to this question is required Detroit Diesel Cummins Diesel Evinrude Outboards Honda Outboards Northern Lights Generators MAN diesel Caterpillar Diesel Perkins Diesel Yanmar Diesel None of the above 12 [911] Select the equipment on which you have performed maintenance and repair work. Answer to this question is required Hatch Covers Malfunctioning Valves Diesel Engines Blowers Anchor Windlasses Boilers Boat Davits Condensers Steering Mac Evaporators Hydraulic Systems Centrifugal Pumps Reciprocating Pumps Turbines Compressors Steering Engines Piping Systems Tank Arrangements Cargo Handling Winches None of the above 13 [5085] Select the response that best describes your knowledge of engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders. Answer to this question is required I have little to no experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders. I have experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders with supervision. I have experience engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders and do not require supervision. I am very comfortable and experienced engaging and disengaging locking devices on mainshafts and rudders and am often looked to for guidance on this task. 14 [7818] Select the equipment which you have used while repairing, adjusting, and testing shipboard equipment. Answer to this question is required Levels Feeler gauges Calipers Electric Drills Pneumatic Drills Grinders Micrometers Depth Gauges Lathes Drill Presses Milling Machines Valve Grinders Welding burning equipment None of the above 15 [8951] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in troubleshooting to determine the nature and extent of repairs necessary, materials or parts needed. Answer to this question is required I have done little to no troubleshooting on the job. I have had study or training in troubleshooting, but have not applied it on the job. I have used my knowledge or training in troubleshooting, but I have been closely supervised. I have applied my knowledge and/or experience in troubleshooting on my own, with little to no immediate supervision. I commonly troubleshoot on the job with no supervision. I supervise or train others in troubleshooting. 16 [870] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience advising managers. Answer to this question is required Persuaded managers to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular course of action Communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals or needs Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations None of the above 17 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 18 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 19 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 22 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 23 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 24 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 28 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 28.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 28.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 28.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).