Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content | U.S. Copyright Office U.S. Copyright Office Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of warehousing methods, procedures and techniques.** Knowledge of accepted warehousing methods and physical distribution functions, procedures and techniques including: 1) having an in-depth knowledge of an overall warehousing plan(s); 2) documenting requirements; 3) determining storage space layout and establishing items and material locations in accordance with regulations/directives; 4) screening and identifying shipping and receiving documents for discrepancies; 5) directing shipments to shipping or storage areas; and 6) receiving, storing, issuing and preserving materials. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of accepted warehousing methods and physical distribution functions, procedures and techniques including ALL of the above. Extensive knowledge of accepted warehousing methods and physical distribution functions, procedures and techniques including FIVE of the above. Knowledge of accepted warehousing methods and physical distribution functions, procedures and techniques including FOUR of the above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to receive, locate, store, ship, load, unload, and package materials.** Performed the following receiving, locating, storing, shipping, loading, unloading and packaging functions: 1) processed various materials received; 2) loaded and unloaded materials; 3) created storage records and assigned storage locations; 4) stored materials in assigned location and arrangement; 5) facilitated movement of materials in accord with priorities; 6) ensured the proper handling and security of materials; 7) packaged materials for storage and shipping; and 8) ensured suitability and compliance with packaging standards. Answer to this question is required Performed a wide range of materials handling activities including AT LEAST SEVEN of the above within time guidelines. Performed a range of materials handling activities including FIVE or SIX of the above within time guidelines. Performed a range of materials handling activities including FOUR of the above within time guidelines. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to operate material moving equipment and vehicles.** Ability to operate material moving equipment and vehicles including: 1) fork lifts, 2) powered pallet jacks, 3) non-powered pallet jacks, 4) stretch wrapping machines, and 5) banding machines. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated the ability to operate a variety of larger material moving equipment and vehicles including ALL of the above. Demonstrated the ability to operate a variety of material moving equipment and vehicles including FOUR of the above. Demonstrated the ability to operate material moving equipment and vehicles including THREE of the above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations.** Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations for processing handling, storing and packaging materials and equipment in a warehouse facility. Answer to this question is required Read and followed information in work orders and site diagrams and completed work assignments by following established procedures for processing, handling, storing and packaging materials in a warehouse. As needed, proposed revisions to existing procedures. Read and followed information in work orders and site diagrams and completed work assignments by following established procedures for processing, handling, storing and packaging materials in a warehouse. Read and followed information in work orders and site diagrams and completed work assignments by following established procedures in a warehouse. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to utilize computer technology and software applications. Utilized computer technology to perform work in an office, warehouse, library, or academic setting, including: 1) word-processing (e.g., Word); 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 3) Adobe Pro; 4) database searches (e.g., library catalogs, Siebel, Voyager, ILS); and 5) electronic mail and calendar systems (e.g., Outlook). Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision used ALL of the above computer technology/software applications. Independently or with minimal supervision used FOUR of the above computer technology/software applications, including 4) database searches. Independently or with minimal supervision, used THREE of the above computer technology/software applications, including 4) database searches. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov U.S. Copyright Office About Copyright Careers at the Copyright Office Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).