Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements below describes administrative activities that you have carried out? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed letters, memoranda, and reports. Created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. Notified or reminded others of pending actions. Arranged travel including plane, car, and hotel reservations. Created travel authorizations in a system such as Govtrip. Used a word processing application to create documents and reports. Acted as a timekeeper and entered time and attendance data into a system such as WebTA. Responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. Independently managed my tasks in an office environment with multiple staff and priorities. None of the above. 3 Have you performed the following as part of your regular duties: process a variety of forms, produce and distribute routine reports, organize and maintain alpha, numeric and subject-matter files; answer the telephone, and provide information regarding procedures and personnel actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following administrative support activities have personally engaged? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the areas of time and attendance and reconciling leave and payroll problems. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as telephone changes, office moves, travel, time & attendance, and files maintenance. I have maintained my supervisor's calendar. I have maintained my staff's calendars. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified discrepancies, determined sources of errors, and prepared the necessary adjustments. I have reviewed automated reports and verified information. I have performed research on questionable billings. I have prepared monthly reports and reconciliations for submission to the appropriate staff. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 What experience do you have using automated office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access or other databases, and SharePoint)? Answer to this question is required Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access (or other databases) and SharePoint. Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access (or other databases). Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Experience with Microsoft Word and Excel. Experience with Microsoft Word. None of the above. 7 Which best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following have you worked with as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Top leaders Middle managers Support staff Building maintenance staff None of the above 9 Do you have the ability to set goals, plan strategies, schedule and coordinate work with others and integrate planning efforts across work units to meet organizational goals? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following statement(s) describes the person-to-person communication or briefing skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have described to the public research findings or recommendations. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have delivered program summary briefings to potential donors or funding agencies. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis. I have created program materials and invitations for an international workshop or conference. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside of the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively while taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discussed issues and the options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management's views to them, and identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance, and knowledge. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally to gather or provide necessary information to sustain a productive working environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information or responding to questions including providing general information to co-workers, staff members, and office visitors and also responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers and staff members and office visitors or also responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers and staff members and office visitors. None of the above. 13 What best describes your ability to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 14 Which of the following reflects your experience preparing written communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional e-mails. Formal letters/memos. Technical reports. Presentations. Position papers. None of the above. 15 What experience do you have communicating in writing to create office procedures or correspondence? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created correspondence on behalf of a superior in the form of office letters, memoranda, orientation packets, and office policies which provide technical information to staff and associates. I have created procedural manuals, orientation packages, etc. I have created office letters and memoranda which provide technical information to others. I have created correspondence. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements describes your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. 17 Which of the following types of documents have you written? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Investigative reports Scientific and technical papers or articles Marketing materials Training manuals Technical manuals Desk procedures or reference guides Newspaper or magazine articles Books Job Aids Contract proposals or reports Congressional responses Press Releases Pamphlets/Brochures Other I have not written any of the above documents. Grade: 11 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. equivalent doctoral degree. I possess 3 full years of progressively higher level education leading to such a degree. I possess a LL.M. I possess 1 year specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 9 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described. 2 Do you have experience assisting with budget development and execution, purchasing, drafting reports and other written materials for budget justifications, and serving as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In what areas of financial management have you acquired experience in budgeting services? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Administrative and Overhead Budgets Contract & Grant budget and Project ID Setup Federal Budgets Proposal Preparation Proposal Review None of the above. 4 Which of the following automated tasks have you performed within the past year? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used word processing software to create correspondence, create labels, etc. I have used word processing software to set up footnotes, outline formats and/or table of contents. I have used database to create tables, queries and/or reports. I have used an email package to maintain scheduled meetings (e.g., MS Outlook, Novell Groupwise, or any other internet based package). I have used PeopleSoft or other software package to track personnel actions and/or financial transactions. I have edited text and merged documents in a personal computer. I have used a photocopy machine for large collation jobs. I have used a scanner to scan large document productions (e.g.,Text Bridge, Paper Port). I have used an automated travel program to generate travel documents and vouchers (examples of travel programs: Travel Manager/Jelco, eTravel Solutions, or on line-booking engines). I have used an automated program to prepare time and attendance records. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience in using Enterprise Resource Programming (ERP) accounting system? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following statements describes your level of experience with planning, reporting and forecasting strategic planning processes within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have designed and implemented an interdepartmental, collaborative planning framework across an organization that resulted in a five-year program goal plan. I have worked with senior level managers in an organization to conduct long-range planning and to develop reports and forecasting methods. I have experience working with senior level management to establish goals, objectives and targets. I have experience in developing long-range planning goals and objectives as a member of a team of individuals within an organization. I do not have experience with developing planning, reporting and forecasting process within an organization. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to prioritize and develop work assignments while effectively responding to day-to-day administrative changes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of these tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained others in performance of these skills and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following statement(s) describes the person-to-person communication or briefing skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have described to the public research findings or recommendations. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have delivered program summary briefings to potential donors or funding agencies. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis. I have created program materials and invitations for an international workshop or conference. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience advising management of potential impacts of changing regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in advising management of potential impacts of changing regulations. I have advised management of the potential impacts of changing regulations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have advised management of potential impacts of changing regulations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have advised management of potential impacts of changing regulations as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting information orally to deliver briefings to senior level management? Answer to this question is required I have conducted resource requirement meetings with groups (e.g., argue budget position in small informal settings such as staff meetings and budget meetings, present arguments for a position effectively using financial data for support and/or evidence). I have made financial management presentations in informal settings/meetings (e.g., participate in group sessions regarding budget submissions and allocation of resources, actively contribute technical and policy issues to strengthen or improve financial plans). I have made technical presentations in small group forum (e.g., participate in inter-office presentations, make recommendations based on analysis of data and resources levels, recommend changes to program financial management practices). I have not had experience or training in presenting information orally to deliver briefings to senior level management. 12 What best describes your ability to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 13 Which of the following statements describes your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of documents have you written? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Investigative reports Scientific and technical papers or articles Marketing materials Training manuals Technical manuals Desk procedures or reference guides Newspaper or magazine articles Books Job Aids Contract proposals or reports Congressional responses Press Releases Pamphlets/Brochures Other I have not written any of the above documents. 15 What experience do you have communicating in writing to create office procedures or correspondence? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created correspondence on behalf of a superior in the form of office letters, memoranda, orientation packets, and office policies which provide technical information to staff and associates. I have created procedural manuals, orientation packages, etc. I have created office letters and memoranda which provide technical information to others. I have created correspondence. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.