Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers who operate machining tools? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical instrument mechanic work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 2 Select the duties and responsibilities that you performed in a supervisory or leader position. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Established expectations and clear direction to meet goals and objectives of on-going work for a group of employees. Motivated and engaged employees through effective communication. Provides day-to-day direction to team members and set daily objectives for work unit based on established priorities and time frames. Determined activities to be performed and assigned tasks to accomplish intended outcome and timeline. Provided oversight for the project and related activities including quality assurance and safety. Observed and assessed employee’s work; provided feedback; planned for and supported employees in career development opportunities. Recommended and requested materials, equipment, and related resources required to meet project demands. Established a culture of safety for employees and ensured that work processes were free from safety and health hazards; that employees are properly trained; and that programs were in place to ensure safety. None of the above. 3 Have you independently set up and operated machining tools (e.g., lathe, grinder, milling machine) to fabricate or repair equipment (e.g., doors, bolts, metal furniture)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience independently performing welding assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility i nstalling, maintaining and repairing&nbsp;fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets. Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained and repaired fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance and repair of fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance and repair of fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets. I have installed, maintained and repaired fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained and repaired fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have trained others on the installation, maintenance and repair of fastening devices, door hardware, including overhead and floor mounted closures, and combination locks that are installed in safes and cabinets. 6 Select the techniques you have independently performed to join metal. Answer to this question is required Soldering Brazing Welding None of the above 7 Select the activities you have performed related to security door installation. Answer to this question is required Fabricated door hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Modified existing door hardware Laid out frames for non-conventional doors Replaced/installed new locks Installed Magnetic Security Locks (MagLocks) None of the above 8 Which types of doors have you installed and/or repaired? Answer to this question is required Roll-up doors (e.g., garage doors) Pneumatic doors Fire doors Custom sized/designed doors None of the above 9 Select the equipment you have trouble shot and repaired. Answer to this question is required Overhead door barrels Security gate systems with hydraulic closure and electronic eye system Parking gate arms Loading dock levelers None of the above 10 Select the safety topics in which you have completed training. Answer to this question is required Ladder safety Confined spaces Overhead work Scaffolding Welding Air quality Lockout/Tagout Forklift and pallet jack operation None of the above 11 Do you have experience managing the performance of subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates Completed performance appraisals for subordinates Documented employee performance Selected employees for promotion Interviewed job applicants Approved/denied leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 13 Do you have experience working with contractors as the point of contact for service work and vendors for supplies and special order materials? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 14 What source documents and/or instructions and references have you used to ensure compliance with building codes, objectives, timeliness, and quality of workmanship? Answer to this question is required Building plans Building codes Blueprints Drawings Sketches Written instructions Work orders Specifications None of the above 15 Do you have experience ensuring that employees understand safety precautions (e.g., lock-out, tag-out, Personal Protective Equipment)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Describe your experience developing process improvements for a company, organization or agency. Please include the type of situation, task at hand, the action you took and result that occurred? Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Please describe your communication style to clients, managers, and employees. Include in your response your style with the duties you chose in the previous question.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous service requests to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Select the items you have independently installed related to doors. Answer to this question is required Door closers Automatic door openers (e.g., handicap access) Electronic locks (e.g., card readers) Mechanical locks (e.g., deadbolt) None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.