Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to interact collaboratively, providing consultation and liaison services.** Provided consultation and liaison services to provide and exchange information including working on joint efforts with stakeholders in the government and private sector concerning matters and projects impacting developing and/or improving BARD products. This includes performing the following activities: 1) engaging in the development of NLS policies as they relate to patron-facing products; 2) giving advice and solving difficult program related issues while maintaining relations with national and international stakeholders; 3) providing expertise in the BARD express product development, implementation, and distribution; 4) coordinating in alpha and beta testing with internal and external stakeholders; and 5) providing guidance to staff and network libraries on the functions and complexities of all patron-facing products, including software development. Answer to this question is required Independently and using authoritative judgement, performed ALL of the above activities. Independently performed FOUR of the above activities. Independently performed THREE of the above activities. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide customer service planning and management work for a program.** Provided program customer service planning and management work to customers, staff members, and management. In doing so, performed the following activities: 1) served as primary contact for system-related inquiries; 2) troubleshot issues for staff and network libraries; 3) provided one-on-one and group training; 4) developed guidance and documentation of records; 5) assessed customer needs and training requirements; 6) developed and delivered standardized training materials and programs; 7) monitored customer feedback and service effectiveness; and 8) recommended and implemented improvements to enhance customer experience and system use. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL OF THE ABOVE activities, including establishing customer service standards and training strategies, coordinating across multiple stakeholder groups and organizational units, resolving high-impact or sensitive issues, and advising senior leadership on customer engagement, training effectiveness, and service delivery improvements. Performed SIX or SEVEN OF THE ABOVE activities, including establishing customer service standards and training strategies, coordinating across multiple stakeholder groups and organizational units, resolving high-impact or sensitive issues, and advising senior leadership on customer engagement, training effectiveness, and service delivery improvements. Performed FIVE OF THE ABOVE activities, including establishing customer service standards and training strategies, coordinating across multiple stakeholder groups and organizational units, resolving high-impact or sensitive issues, and advising senior leadership on customer engagement, training effectiveness, and service delivery improvements. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared written correspondence, reports and briefing materials for work assignments and developmental activities. Coordinates written efforts for workshops and various external partners. Answer to this question is required Frequently and independently drafted, reviewed, and edited documents and reports for final distribution, including memoranda, correspondence, briefing materials, technical information, and management reports, ensuring documents met standards for clarity, consistency and format. This included incorporating graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data, in these reports and documents. Frequently assisted in drafting, reviewing, and editing documents and reports for final distribution, including memoranda, correspondence, briefing materials, and management reports, ensuring documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. Occasionally drafted, reviewed, and edited memoranda, correspondence, briefing materials, and management reports, ensuring documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to utilize applicable information technology. Demonstrated the ability to utilize information technology, including: 1) Microsoft Office Suite (e.g., Word, Outlook), 2) third party assistive technology used to access BARD, 3) Conferencing software (e.g., Skype, Zoom, Teams), and 4) NLS e-Reader, DA2, DTBM, and other BARD products. Answer to this question is required Utilize information technology, including ALL of the above. Utilize information technology, including 1, 2) and 4) above. Utilize information technology, including 2) and 4) above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).