Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Training Technician must setup a variety of audio and visual equipment and have a working knowledge of various forms of electronic media, reproduction equipment and other information technology equipment for training. Must be able to troubleshoot equipment to prevent delays or disruption. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated and submitted work orders with external vendors; and/or I have tracked and monitored work orders for equipment; and/or I have performed multiple minor repairs (i.e., replaced toner cartridges, cords, batteries on presenter microphones and sound systems, copiers, laminating equipment, poster maker or other training equipment); and/or I have determined the type of equipment to utilize based on the technology needs and requests of an instructor; and/or I have performed routine maintenance on equipment and determined when and what kind of maintenance is needed; and/or I have scheduled major repairs with outside vendors when necessary for major equipment. I have set-up/developed classroom materials for training events/seminars; and/or I have assisted others with performing minor repairs to training equipment, made calls and arranged for copier repair; and/or I have performed minor preventative maintenance, as required by manufacture, on office equipment. I have setup classroom equipment for training seminar or event; and/or I have followed a request from an instructor to setup a training room; and/or I have scheduled preventative maintenance on office equipment. None of the above. 3 The Training Technician must ensure proper supplies, in sufficient quantities, are ready when needed for training sessions. Must maintain a constant inventory of equipment and related supplies and provide needed supplies to classrooms per instructor requests. Items which require repair or identified as broken or surplus will be handled in accordance with policy. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained inventory of rotating supplies for a training department; and/or I have received supply requests and gathered requested items for a training venue; and/or I have tracked participant manuals and user guides for a vendor sponsored event; and/or I have prepared financial paperwork or justification to purchase emergency supplies/items. I have purchased merchandise/goods for an organizational entity; and/or I have forecasted class requirements to ensure the availability of supplies for training classes; and/or I have acquired supplies during emergency situations; and/or I have met immediate change in amount and/or type of supplies required for training class. I have conducted an inventory of training supplies/merchandise/items; and/or I have submitted requisitions to order supplies and equipment; and/or I have secured and maintained all hand receipted equipment and supplies for a training department. None of the above. 4 The Training Technician must communicate with others, internal and external to the organization, and at all levels. Contacts are made in-person, via email and telephonically in order to convey or gather information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided instruction on the completion of training authorization forms, course evaluation forms/credit card purchase forms; and/or I have collaborated with course instructors to gather and assemble training materials for a class; and/or I have troubleshooted equipment malfunctions issues and communicated required responses to appropriate audiences; and/or I have provided orientation training to personnel; and/or I have coordinated training requests for conferences or venues with vendors. I have conducted training sessions on new equipment or new software for co-workers; and/or I have responded to training inquiries from class participants for future training events; and/or I have assisted with providing training to employees during training classes such as Annual Training; and/or I have provided procedural or policy driven information to employees/vendors. I have answered questions from employees about training records/training opportunities; and/or I have collaborated with others to ensure projects and tasks were completed within requested time frames; and/or I have greeted visitors to the department and provided general information; and/or I have provided an update on the status of a project during a staff meeting. None of the above. 5 The Training Technician coordinates the workflow and determines priorities to ensure day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled classes based on availability of classrooms, equipment or instructors, monitored budget and training costs; and/or I have developed a new procedure for the office to increase effectiveness; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures to improve efficiency within the department; and/or I have developed schedules to track simultaneous and overlapping projects/assignments; and/or I have coordinated activities of multiple employees to complete a task; and/or I have established priorities for differing functions and requirements to meet deadline. I have organized and maintained office according to procedures; and/or I have monitored the completion of mandatory training requirements by employees; and/or I have monitored budget; and/or I have used approved procedures for the office to increase effectiveness; and/or I have used standard operating procedures to improve efficiency within the department; and/or I have tracked schedules with simultaneous and overlapping projects/assignments; and/or I have tracked activities of multiple employees to complete a task; and/or I have recommended priorities for differing functions and requirements to meet deadline. I have assisted with planning upcoming training programs; and/or I have maintained supervisor's calendar; and/or I have assisted with monitoring training requirements; and/or I have used approved office procedures in setting priorities; and/or I have used standard operating procedures to set priorities; and/or I have updated schedules with simultaneous and overlapping projects/assignments for supervisor; and/or I have updated activities of multiple employees to complete a task for supervisor. None of the above. 6 The Training Technician must be able to work with computers to enter data, create documents, and maintain and provide security of hard copy and electronic records. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved employee transcripts/training records; and/or I have evaluated employee transcripts/training records to verify the completion of training requirements; and/or I have scheduled participants for training using a Learning Management System (LMS); and/or I have keyed participants for completed training courses within a Learning Management System (LMS); and/or I have used the Internet to research and obtain information about training programs and equipment; and/or I have updated and tracked training information using a training database; and/or I have used a word processing or data base to setup table or schedules to track events, mailings, classes. I have keyed time and attendance into database; and/or I have typed documents using word processing software, such as Microsoft Word; and/or I have maintained a record of all office forms using the computer; and/or I have typed training evaluations. I have used computer software packages for research and tracking purposes; and/or I have created charts, graphs, and tables and used merge functions; and/or I have used an automated system to enter, search, edit, and extract data and information; and/or I have created file directories; and/or I have assisted with creating lesson plans; and/or I have created presentations using the computer; and/or I have used word processing software to produce multiple letters using merge; and/or I have keyed lesson plans requiring varying type sizes, styles and formats. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).