Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Department of Commerce Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 0 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Privacy Act Statement Authority:&nbsp; 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(a), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(e)(1) and (e)(3), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b) and (c) Purpose:&nbsp; &nbsp;The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) hosts the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) which provides an opportunity for the NIST laboratories to encourage outstanding undergraduate students to pursue careers in science and technology. The Summer High School Intern Program (SHIP) is a NIST-wide summer intern program for students who will have finished their junior or senior year of high school by the start of the program and are interested in scientific research only. The Summer Institute for Middle School Science Teachers is a two-week workshop for middle school science teachers featuring hands-on activities, lectures, tours, and visits with NIST scientists and engineers in their laboratories.&nbsp;This information collection will serve as the application and submission process for these NIST Academic Programs. Routine Uses: &nbsp; NIST will use the information collected to perform the requisite reviews of the applications to determine eligibility, and to meet programmatic requirements. Disclosure of this information is also subject to all the published routine uses as identified in the Privacy Act System of Records Notices:&nbsp; NIST-1: NIST Associates.&nbsp; Disclosure: &nbsp; Furnishing this information is voluntary. When you submit the form, you are indicating your voluntary consent for NIST to use of the information you submit for the purpose stated. 1 Teacher's (your) Name Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Email Address Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Complete School Name Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Complete School Address Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 School District Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Is this School Listed as Title 1 by the U.S. Department of Education? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 School Prinicipal Name Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 School Prinicipal Email Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 School Supervisor's Name Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 School Supervisor's Email Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How many years have you taught science at the middle school level (Grades 6, 7, and/or 8)? (Only numbers will be accepted in this field, to denote partial years enter as a decimal. For example, enter 1.75 to denote 1 and 3/4 years.) Answer to this question is required 12 How many years have you taught any school at any level?&nbsp; (Only numbers will be accepted in this field, to denote partial years enter as a decimal. For example, enter 1.75 to denote 1 and 3/4 years.) Answer to this question is required 13 In what grade(s) do you teach science for the current school year? If you teach science for more than one grade, select all additional grades that apply. Answer to this question is required 6th grade 7th grade 8th grade 14 For each of the subject areas listed below, indicate which subjects are covered in your classes in the current school year. Answer to this question is required Biology Chemistry Earth Science Physics Space Science Weather 15 In what grade(s) do you expect to teach science for the following school year? If you expect to teach science for more than one grade, select all additional grades that apply. Answer to this question is required 6th grade 7th grade 8th grade 16 What degree have you earned in Math, Science, Education, Science Education?&nbsp; NOTE: Degree options do not include certifications, certificates, endorsements, or licensures. Answer to this question is required Bachelor Ed.D Master Ph.D 17 Have you earned a degree that is NOT in Math, Science, Science Education? NOTE: Degree options do not include certifications, certificates, endorsements, or licensures. Answer to this question is required Bachelor Ed.D Master Ph.D Not Applicable 18 Not counting the NIST Summer Institute, have you participated in any professional development activities in a laboratory, research, or industrial setting in the past 3 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following professional development activities have you participated in during the past three (3) years? Answer to this question is required Developing leadership skills in working with peers Developing skills in working with parents, school boards, or other outside of the school Learning content knowledge related to science Learning content knowledge not related to science Learning how to use data and statistics Learning strategies for aligning curriculum with standards Selecting and adapting instructional material Using research to inform curriculum with standards Using technology in instruction Working with diverse and/or minority students, special education students, and/or students with limited English proficiency Other Not Applicable 20 If you selected "Other", please describe the professional development activities have you participated in during the past three (3) years? If you did not select "Other", please enter N/A. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Statement of Motivation: In the space provided below (may not exceed space provided) Describe why you would like to attend the NIST Summer Institute. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 How did you learn about the NIST Summer Institute ? Answer to this question is required Encourage/recruited/designated by local leadership council/curricular committee or professional development program or organization. Encouraged by a former NIST Summer Institute participant and decided to apply. Encouraged/recruited/designated by an administrator (excluding school principal) or specialist at the school or district level (e.g., superintendent, curriculum specialist, department head or chair, or science coach). Encouraged/recruited/designated specifically by my school principal. Noticed an open invitation and decided to apply. View Vacancy Details Agency Financial Report Comment Policy Commerce Archive EEO Policy FOIA GobiernoUSA.gov Improper Payments Information Quality Inspector General No Fear Act PLAIN Language Privacy Policy USA.gov Whistleblower Protection Whitehouse.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).