Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-11 Attorney Advisor position as I have a a professional law degree JD, LL.B., and/or LL.M. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 12 Professional law experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I have at least one year of full-time professional law experience gained after being admitted to the bar. The minimum one-year work experience requirement includes at least one year of specialized experience that is directly related to the position being filled and that is at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to that of an attorney at the GS-11 level. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Conducting in-depth legal research; 2. Drafting legal documents; and 3. Providing input regarding the resolution of legal issues. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 Professional law experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I have at least two years of full-time professional law experience gained after being admitted to the bar. The minimum one-year work experience requirement includes at least one year of specialized experience that is directly related to the position being filled and that is at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to that of an attorney at the GS-12 level. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Conducting in-depth legal research; 2. Preparing complex legal documents; 3. Developing research strategies for legal issues; and 4. Making oral presentations to communicate legal information. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Attorney positions. Choose the one answer that best describes your educational background required for an Attorney position: Answer to this question is required I have a JD, LL.B., and/or LL.M. I do not possess any of the degrees listed above. 7 I am a member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. 8 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. 9 We are hiring Attorney positions throughout the Enforcement Bureau (EB). Please select the organizational division of preference. Your response will be used to identify your preferred organizational placement. Please select your first choice, most preferred organizational division. Answer to this question is required Investigation & Hearings Division Fraud Division Spectrum Enforcement Division Market Disputes Resolution Division I have no Division of preference. 10 We are hiring Attorney positions throughout the Enforcement Bureau (EB). Please select the organizational division of preference. Your response will be used to identify your preferred organizational placement. Please select your second preferred organizational division. Answer to this question is required Investigation & Hearings Division Fraud Division Spectrum Enforcement Division Market Disputes Resolution Division I have no Division of preference 11 We are hiring Attorney positions throughout the Enforcement Bureau (EB). Please select the organizational division of preference. Your response will be used to identify your preferred organizational placement. Please select your third preferred organizational division. Answer to this question is required Investigation & Hearings Division Fraud Division Spectrum Enforcement Division Market Disputes Resolution Division I have no Division of preference 12 We are hiring Attorney positions throughout the Enforcement Bureau (EB). Please select the organizational division of preference. Your response will be used to identify your preferred organizational placement. Please select your fourth preferred organizational division. Answer to this question is required Investigation & Hearings Division Fraud Division Spectrum Enforcement Division Market Disputes Resolution Division I have no Division of preference View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).