Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 For procurements to which you have materially contributed, what was your role? Answer to this question is required Team Leader Team Member Help prepare statement of work (Government) Help prepare vendor proposal (Private Sector) Help prepare cost estimate (Government) Help prepare cost proposal (Private Sector) Participate on Private Sector Team Participate on bid / no bid decision team (Private Sector) Estimate personnel resources required. None of the above 5 Select the responses from the following list of contract / procurement / acquisition areas that would best describe your experience. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Conducting Price / Cost Analyses Industry Pricing Trends and Marketing Practices Developing Negotiation Objectives Conducting Negotiations Best Value Procurement Performance Based Contracts Past Performance Oral Proposals Section 508 Competitive Source Selection Process Collective Bargaining Agreements / DOL Procedures Novation Agreements and Assignment of Claims None of the above. 6 What parts of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) do you apply on a routine basis? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Part 8 - Programs Part 12 - Commercial Items Part 13 - Simplified Acquisitions Part 14 - Sealed Bids Part 15 - Negotiated Procurements Part 19 - Small Business Programs Part 36 - Construction and A & E Part 42 - Contract Administration and Audit Services Part 43 - Contract Modifications I have no experience applying the FAR 7 Select the answers that describe the communication / briefing skills you have used to convey information on acquisition programs. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive material for various audiences. I have drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have edited reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience. I have briefed managers / executives on technical information both within and outside the Agency. I have provided briefings and defended controversial issues to a variety of audiences. None of the above 8 From the following list of documents, please identify those that you have authored or co-authored? Answer to this question is required Agency Planning Documents Price Analysis Contract Documents Feasibility Studies Procurement Alternatives Analyses Cost / Benefits Analyses Statements of Work Negotiation Documents Executive Summaries / Briefing Materials Performance Based Contractual Documents Issue Decision Memos Correspondence None of the above 9 With which of the following types of contracts and agreements do you have experience? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Firm Fixed Price Time and Material Labor Hour Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Cost Plus Fixed Fee Cost Plus Award Fee Grants / Assistance Commercial items / service Fixed Price Incentive Fixed Price Level of Effort Construction / A & E Letter Contracts Blanket Purchase Agreements Interagency Agreements Performance Based Statement of Work Contract Simplified Acquisitions FAR Part 19 Small Business Programs Multiple Awards FAR Part 8 Programs FAR Part 6 Exceptions to Competition Government Wide Agency Contracts (GWAC) None of the above 10 What is the highest dollar value of a procurement for which you performed all of the necessary steps from identification of the requirement through preparation of the award document? Answer to this question is required No more than $100,000 Greater than $100,000 but not greater than $5,000,000 Greater than $5,000,000 but not greater than $50,000,000 Greater than $50,000,000 None of the above 11 If you have participated in Technical Evaluation Panels or Boards, what was your role? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Advisor Observer Board Member Chairperson Selecting Official None of the Above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.