Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors, such as tile and marble? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or training related to cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors. I have cleaned and maintained carpet with close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently cleaned and maintained carpet and floors. 4 Select the response that most closely match your highest level of experience performing floor maintenance. Answer to this question is required I have worked in building spaces under close guidance of a supervisor to monitor my work. I have cleaned building spaces for supervisory inspection. I have independently cleaned building spaces. None of the above. 5 Select the type of instructions you have interpreted and followed to perform work assignments. Answer to this question is required Oral instructions provided in-person Oral instructions provided on the telephone Work orders Written manufacturing instructions (e.g., on chemical packaging) None of the above 6 Select the activities you have performed to prepare surfaces for cleaning. Answer to this question is required Moved furniture or equipment Pre-vacuumed Swept lose dirt with a broom Gathered needed equipment and supplies Posted caution signs (e.g., wet floor) Notified supervisor of expected timeframe for task completion None of the above 7 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 8 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which response best describes your highest level of experience operating, maintaining and repairing floor cleaning equipment? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have independently operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment. I have operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have completed training or education in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have not operated, maintained or repaired floor cleaning equipment. 10 Do you have experience managing the performance of subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which activities have you performed as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Assigned tasks to employees, taking into account workload and skill levels Reviewed completed work to ensure instructions were followed Encouraged employees to participate in team planning activities Communicated information to employees regarding work requirements and timelines Monitored work progress Provided technical direction to team members in accomplishing tasks None of the above 12 Do you have experience providing hands on training to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which instructions and information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Material Safety Data Sheets None of the above 15 In which ways have you communicated with employees? Answer to this question is required Coached employees on job performance Explained performance expectations Led meeting discussions Trained employees on new procedures Described disciplinary actions being implemented Advised employees of policies None of the above 16 Have you trained or developed subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Do you have experience supervising and evaluating employees while performing as a worker? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.