Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Performing contract administration activities for procurements; (2) Reviewing contractors&rsquo; performance through site visits, correspondence, and/or telephone conversation for completion of applicable contract clauses e.g., small business, patent rights, labor laws, and progress reports; and (3) Preparing statistical and narrative reports and charts/graphs that depict and compare results of programs and initiatives. Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. None of the above. 3 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Conducting contract reviews to evaluate performance; (2) Monitoring contractor activities through personal contact and/or review to ensure compliance with technical, financial, delivery, and/or other terms of the contract; and (3) Conducting analyses of contractors' financial and management systems and facilities for ability to perform and for compliance with federal regulatory requirements. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statements of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitoring contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, and managing contractor project activities, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing and evaluating contract performance, and managing contractor project activities as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 What activities do you have experience performing routinely with little or no supervision? Answer to this question is required Interpret and apply program policies, procedures, and regulations. Develop special clauses, terms and/or conditions applicable to a solicitation. Terminate contracts for default or convenience and negotiate settlements. Assess program needs, identify risks, solve problems, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant controversial issues. None of the above. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 4 Select the duties that you performed to solicit, analyze, negotiate, award, and administer contracts. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and assisted with customer's requirement development. Developed procurement strategies. Solicited and analyzed proposals. Negotiated with vendors. Drafted contract documentation for award. Performed contract administration tasks, such as issuing modifications, approving invoices, close-out, etc. None of the above. 5 Which contract acquisition duties have you frequently performed? Answer to this question is required I have performed acquisition planning activities. I have conducted events that are exchanges with industry outreach activities. I have accessed and approved subcontracting plans and reports. I have performed price/cost analysis of proposals. I have performed contractor responsibility determinations. I have ensured government adherence to contractor oversight/quality assurance activities. I have not performed any of the above duties. 6 Do you have experience working as a Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officers Representative (COR) or equivalent? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 8 For what purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To develop program recommendations. To modify program goals. To measure and evaluate program performance and effectiveness. To investigate business processes. To determine measures required to improve efficiency and quality. To perform cost benefit analysis. None of the above. 9 Have you independently presented audit reports and compliance information to senior officials containing recommendations for revisions of policies and/or procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Select the areas of management analysis in which you have on-the-job experience. Answer to this question is required Compliance management Facilities management Operations and maintenance Space Planning Budget and financial management Architectural and/or Engineering Design Program development and assessment Records management Strategic planning Policy development Project management Contract Management None of the above 11 Which project management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Established project milestones. Established deliverables. Set deadlines. Allocated resources. Aligned resources with goals. Created stakeholder communications. None of the above. 12 Please select the computer software applications you have used in an office environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable Microsoft Teams Sharepoint MAXIMO Financial Management System (FMS Momentum) or comparable None of the above 13 Select the statement that best describes your experience with entering data accurately into computer database systems or spreadsheet programs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 14 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identified relevant and important information Synthesized data from multiple sources Discerned underlying assumptions Generated solution ideas Weighed alternative options Developed recommendations Validated support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 15 Select the statements that describe your presentation/communication experience (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence intended for Congress or the public for signature by higher level officials. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. Compiled complex information and presented in simple, straightforward terms for a variety of audiences. Composed safety/emergency response information for impacted staff, media or public during times of crisis. None of the above. 16 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports Financial reports Data justification reports (non-financial) Data interpretation/research reports Program Evaluation Reports Standard Operating Procedures Summaries Process Improvement Plans Action Plans Policy Directives Recommendations on the use of data Recommendations for operational changes On-Line Material Printed Material None of the above 17 Do you have experience performing a variety of office management and administrative activities in support of business operations for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Please indicate which tasks you have performed while conducting business process reengineering or improvement projects: Answer to this question is required Analyzing the efficiency and effectiveness of business processes Analyzing the roles, needs and contributions of participants in a business process Recommending improvements to a complex business process Gaining approval for a majority of recommendations you provided Identified and/or developed data requirements for use in the management and direction of programs Participated in the deployment of the re-engineered process Identified, evaluated, and recommended solutions to system problems None of the above 19 Which activities have you performed to determine program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required Identified overlaps in expenditures Compared program expenses with historical costs Compared program satisfaction with historical data Compared program goals to organization`s mission Developed satisfaction measures (e.g., surveys, metrics) Suggested alternative processes to improve efficiency Reviewed data for discrepancies or anomalies None of the above 20 Do you have experience managing labor and/or custodial contracts? If yes, please provide details of contracts managed, to include the purpose of the contract, length of the contract, the contract budget. Please identify exactly where in your resume this experience is presented. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Are you an active COR in the federal government? If no, are you able to secure a COR certification within your first 60 days of appointment?&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.