Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration. OR B. Specialized Experience: Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Managing a maintenance program for office or apartment building complexes, hospitals, recreation facilities, military, or other special-purpose installations, including planning maintenance activities, and developing preventive maintenance programs. Conducting surveillance activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by a variety of private contractors, including reviewing project plans and specifications for workability, informing contractors of construction and reporting requirements, and supervising operations for conformance with project plans. Performing maintenance or construction work, including estimating material and labor costs for a variety of construction or maintenance projects (such as construction or maintenance of brick, frame, structural steel, reinforced concrete, and other type structures ranging from one- or two-story buildings to larger structures), directing actual work operations, and maintaining appropriate contacts with the organization funding the project. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Life Safety Program Specialist must be able to communicate with a variety of individuals in order to coordinate multi-faceted projects including new construction, renovations, equipment replacement and other issues. Contacts include counterparts and representatives of other government installations, Regional Administrators, Wardens, Facility Managers, manufacturers, vendors and other outside organizations. Other contacts may include firms, members of state and local correctional agencies, industry representatives, and officials of other agencies at the federal, state, and local level. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prisons’ managers while involved in a project; and/or I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have provided guidance to less experienced staff; and/or I have chaired a department meeting. I have participated as a member of a taskforce or workgroup; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have provided feedback with project/systems managers, contractors, and other representatives; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline. I have interacted with managers, architects, and engineers in the appropriate discipline, and recurring contacts with technical staff of other specialties; and/or I have interacted with managers and colleagues regarding long range planning; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with counterparts from other agencies and installations, Regional Administrators, Wardens, Facility Managers, external agencies, and contract professional firms from the private sector; and/or I have communicated findings to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers, during staff assistance visit, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 6 The Life Safety Program Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to respond to numerous reports as well as prepare informational memorandums and requests. He/she must translate technical documents, plans, specifications, and reports into layman terms. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefing; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations Memorandums; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have written special analysis and justifications to higher authority regarding economic benefits of an approach still maintaining the integrity of the program; and/or I have responded to Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding proposed congressional legislation affecting Bureau of Prisons’ facilities management. I have written memorandums for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandums or correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries. I have prepared directions for peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared written responses regarding design compliance and other program issues of a critical nature in the area of proposed construction. None of the above. 7 The Life Safety Program Specialist must have knowledge of a wide variety of specialty areas in facilities management functions, property management, National Fire Protection Association Codes, Federal accessibility laws, International Building Code, Department of Justice (DOJ) Directives, and other Federal Regulations/Directives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assigned tasks consistent with subordinate civilian workers capabilities; and/or I have monitored multi-faceted projects such as renovations to existing structures; and/or I have implemented local procedures based on existing policy; and/or I have identified training needs; and/or I have monitored departmental expenditures and reporting requirements; and/or I have provided specialty advice and guidance on facility programs. I have identified minor design modifications; and/or I have determined and/or assisted co-worker in determining compliance to Bureau of Prisons’ policies; and/or I have kept abreast of changes affecting Federal Code compliance impacting expansion and renovation of existing Bureau facilities, and written policy to ensure Bureau-wide compliance with these changes; and/or I have coordinated activities of several Facility Management Specialists in areas such as energy and water conservation, design, physical plant and infrastructure, and all life safety issues; and/or I have written/developed guidelines/directives for Bureau of Prison’s facility operations institution design compliance, long range master planning, and institution design/review program areas; and/or I have developed directives and provided expert design and technical specialty advice and guidance for a facility program. I have supervised a work crew engaged in various occupations; and/or I have ordered necessary materials for projects; and/or I have identified deficiencies during an audit; and/or I have kept project documentation current; and/or I have followed agency procedures in handling facilities programs and reporting requirements; and/or I have provided basic advice and guidance on facility programs requiring assistance from senior staff in highly specialized areas. None of the above. 8 The Life Safety Program Specialist must have the ability to use, read and interpret floor plans and layouts, building life cycle cost and life cycle cost analysis. He/she must also be able to plan construction activities, determine if they comply with related laws and codes, particularly life safety codes, and/or to determine the need to alter a planned activity to comply with current programs, laws, and/or codes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted program managers in the interpretation of design specifications and drawings for current program policy compliance; and/or I have reviewed plans and specifications which included life safety requirements; and/or I have requested accessibility compliance assistance, only with most difficult problems; and/or I have compared specifications to engineer drawings; and/or I have identified minor modifications required; and/or I have maintained existing reporting program where each institution reports significant findings regarding life safety issues. I have participated in specialty programs, using knowledge of design specification and drawing interpretation, ensured construction and renovation requests complied with current program policy; and/or I have reviewed plans and specifications designed by others for compliance with life safety codes; and/or I have identified concerns during design reviews related to life safety code compliance; and/or I have reviewed shop drawings, construction materials and field activities including the validity of change orders and related costs for projects under the Facilities Programs Section; and/or I have made changes for enhancement of existing life safety programs. I have reviewed construction and renovation drawings during concept and design phases to ensure compliance with approved design programs; and/or I have reviewed drawings, Statements of Work and contract documents for compliance and accuracy and made recommendations/corrections/changes as required; and/or I have developed Bureau of Prisons’ guidelines related to life safety; and/or I have directed development of designs and instructed staff and contractors related to life safety design compliance regarding National Fire Protection Act 101; and/or I have inspected construction projects for life safety compliance and noted revisions for compliance; and/or I have considered various requirements and ensured compliance with all life safety codes. None of the above. 9 The Life Safety Program Specialist must have knowledge of energy and water conservation equipment, systems, renewable energy technologies, engineering/architectural fundamentals, and applications in order to prepare technical reports, Statements of Work, independent government cost estimates, and technical documents related to the specific national program area of responsibility in order to assure compliance with all related Federal laws, codes, and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and evaluated proposals from architects, engineers and managers to determine the adequacy and suitability for use in Bureau of Prisons’ facilities; and/or I have managed projects containing a combination of complex features requiring a high degree of technical judgement, originality, and resourcefulness to recognize possible new directions of approach and devised new or improved techniques and methods; and/or I have overcame difficult and unusual problems where precedents were not directly applicable; and/or I have applied latest technological advances related to the specialization and analyzed and evaluated designs, proposals and ideas submitted by others. I have made frequent trips to project sites; and/or I have conducted life safety reviews; and/or I have investigated work in progress; and/or I have coordinated resolution of any problems through Bureau of Prisons’ project representative, contractors and/or consultants; and/or I have ensured work met specifications. I have inspected existing conditions of a project; and/or I have reviewed engineering design, technology, specifications, and drawings for current program policy compliance; and/or I have reviewed and evaluated proposals from architects, engineers, and managers with team and advised on the adequacy for use in a Bureau of Prisons facility. I have ensured compliance with Bureau of Prisons policy regarding physical plant surveys and life safety codes (i.e., National Fire Protection Act 101, 72, 24); and/or I have made recommendations to Central Office, Architectural and Engineering (A/E) firms, regional and institutional personnel to achieve compliance; and/or I have made selections of team members including consultants and construction managers/representatives. None of the above. 10 The Life Safety Program Specialist is responsible for the management, coordination, development and implementation of policy for institution life safety throughout the Bureau of Prisons. He/she provides technical expertise in the design and modernization of existing facilities and ensures consistent application of approved design criteria Bureau-wide. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated recalls with regional office life safety systems/items which may affect safety/security for institutions within a region; and/or I have provided advice/assistance with facility managers/supervisors/staff; and/or I have modified policy changes for various life safety policies; and/or I have conducted national training programs. I have coordinated institution recalls on life safety systems/items which could be defective; and/or I have provided advice/assistance to regional authorities regarding policies and technical practices techniques; and/or I have assisted in conducting national training programs. I have researched, consulted and developed/implemented policies, guidelines, and program standards; and/or I have conducted research projects and management surveys; and/or I have coordinated life safety systems/items which may be defective; and/or I have taught at the national level regarding life safety technical policies, practices and techniques; and/or I have developed consistent notification system for recalls and advisory issues from the Bureau of Prisons; and/or I have developed and conducted national training programs; and/or I have possessed extensive knowledge of life safety codes (i.e., National Fire Protection Act 101, 72, 24 and 13). None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).