Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your ability to manage teams? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in managing teams. I have applied this ability to work situations. I have no formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have had experience applying this ability to work situations. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 4 From the following list identify those types of information products you have prepared using research or analytic techniques: Answer to this question is required College term paper Thesis Dissertation Research grant proposal Journal / newspaper articles Standardized reports Position papers Policy documents Teaching/ instrumental aids Talking points Speeches None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 6 Please select the description that BEST describes your experience conducting research and formulating recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have significant experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on organizational issues that are broad in scope. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations limited to a specific project area or program. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on focused activities and bounded problem statements. I have experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on a set of activities that I am solely responsible for producing. I have no experience conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations. 7 From the following list of qualitative and quantitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Qualitative interviews Statistical analysis ISO 9000/9001 Malcolm Baldridge Six sigma Focus groups None of the above 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. None of the above 10 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 11 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 12 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 13 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of these tasks due to my expertise in these areas. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed them independently and usually without the assistance from a supervisor. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing these tasks but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing these tasks. 14 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 15 Select the personnel management related activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Establishes guidelines and performance expectations for subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Evaluates job performance of subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Develops work improvement plans, recommending personnel actions as necessary. Provides advice and counsel to workers related to work and administrative matters. Provides informal feedback and periodically evaluates employee performance. Hears and/or resolves complaints and grievances from employees. Provides advice, counsel or instruction to individual employees. Plans work to be accomplished by subordinates, setting priorities, and scheduling completion. Counsels subordinates regarding career potential and opportunities. Identifies training needs for subordinate staff and schedules necessary training. None of the above. 16 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 17 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 18 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Government Accountability Office (GAO) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) National Security Council / National Security Staff Other government agencies U.S. Delegations Bi-lateral Organizations Multi-lateral Organizations Host country governments None of the above 19 Which of the following types of teams have you planned, organized, and managed? Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.