Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Quality Ranking Factor: At least 24 months as a consultant for mental health assessment or intervention concerns to a facility or organization. Specifically, provided consultation regarding mental health crises and/or assessments and/or interventions/treatments to organizational leadership and other departments/sections of the organization. Note: The above quality ranking factor is preferred. Therefore, applicants who possess the quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidates can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess the quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Veterans Support Coordinator must effectively communicate on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, outside resource staff, and stakeholders ranging from the general public to high-level official, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp;&nbsp; He/she must possess effective formal presentation skills to conduct training with agency staff in a in a wide range of departments and in large and small group formats.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided orientation/mentorship to enhance collaboration/recruitment; and/or I have facilitated and led interdisciplinary meetings with professionals; and/or I have participated in decision making discussions; and/or I have located key agencies and contact personnel to facilitate working relationships; and/or I have provided direct services to staff via telephonic or video conferencing equipment; and/or I have assisted with training of new workers in assigned location; and/or I have led staff assist visits. I have provided specialized services to individuals, groups, and agencies/organizations; and/or I have advised or provided helpful input to other disciplines; and/or I have collaborated with providers and external agency/organization officials regarding mental health or medical treatment needs for military veterans; and/or I have delivered presentations at a national or local level at a multidisciplinary conference. I have utilized conference calls, online, or live training, presentations; and/or I have advised program staff or agency/organization on the policies and procedures regarding needs of military veterans; and/or I have conveyed changes in policy regarding the needs of military veterans to program staff, or agency/organization officials; and/or I have developed and coordinated work conferences at the national level; and/or I have represented profession as a speaker at high level conference. None of the above. 5 The National Veterans Support Coordinator develops programs, procedures, and policy to benefit Bureau of Prisons military veterans.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, line staff, and the public. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have authored an article which was published in a nationally recognized correctional or mental health publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have designed, written, and implemented a proposal for addressing the needs of staff; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals external to the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have conveyed information related to inmate or staff programming; and/or I have prepared written responses to inmate or staff inquiries or grievances; and/or I have developed schedules, handouts, flyers, and other program materials as needed. I have written post orders or emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a formal response to findings from a program review or comparable external quality assurance review; and/or I have drafted Institution Supplements or comparable local guidance documents; and/or I have written an operational review report or comparable local quality assurance review document. None of the above. 6 The National Veterans Support Coordinator implements the Bureau of Prisons Battle Buddy (B3) Program through specific task-related projects, the application of managerial knowledge, and resolution of problems.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for the overall management of the program for the entire Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed plans to modify program operations to adapt to a significant change in mission; and/or I have written a proposal and successfully implemented the expansion or modification of an existing program; and/or I have developed plans and projections for anticipated staffing and funding resources needed to activate a new department or new program. I have developed a protocol that was implemented at multiple sites within an agency/organization; and/or I have developed national policy to guide the implementation of a new program in the agency/organization; and/or I have prepared a proposal and implementation plan for agency/organization executives on an initiative with broad impact on agency/organizational performance. I have administered and conducted treatment groups as directed by approved policies or protocols; and/or I have monitored waiting lists and program capacities to ensure treatment program resources were fully utilized; and/or I have monitored the mental health needs of a caseload to ensure clinical services were received as directed by policies or guidelines. None of the above. 7 The National Veterans Support Coordinator must be aware of all relevant policies, procedures, and guidelines in order to effectively manage the Bureau of Prisons Battle Buddy (B3) as well as develop, analyze, evaluate, advise, and serve as a subject matter expert on concerning mental health and wellbeing of military veterans working within a correctional environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a reviewer-in-charge for an operational review/internal review; and/or I have provided guidance/trained others regarding policy and monitored their work to ensure compliance with policies and regulations; and/or I have participated as a member of a program review team/internal review team comparing current practice against policies and procedures. I have developed local office procedures that complied with national policy; and/or I have explained policy requirements to vendors/volunteers interested in providing training/services to military veterans; and/or I have consulted with others to clarify policy requirements. I have researched and interpreted other policies to inform the creation of policy; and/or I have drafted local policy or an internal supplement regarding procedures; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment to determine needed changes to policy. None of the above. 8 The National Veterans Support Coordinator performs a variety of complex analytical activities to evaluate, develop, advise, and promote improvement in policies, practices, methods, and procedures to benefit the Bureau of Prisons military veterans.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated programs for compliances with federal laws and federal regulations; and/or I have provided group mental health treatments; and/or I have implemented a database of all participants engaging in programming; and/or I have participated in quality management performance assessment or improvement projects. I have developed/evaluated the effectiveness of new programs objectives and processes to improve the quality of health care in the agency/organization; and/or I have determined resource requirements based on program or project objectives or operational needs; and/or I have identified processes or issues which were improved or resolved through the collection of data and recommendation; and/or I have coordinated projects to collect and analyze data leading to the resolution of an existing problems; and/or I have collected and analyzed complex data. I have served as a liaison between the agency and governmental/extra-governmental consultants in the area of program review and administration functions; and/or I have conducted on/off site consultation services to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the utilization of staff; and/or I have created and implemented data collection and analysis for multiple programs to determine trends and develop new standards; and/or I have implemented national work groups to resolve issues or create new policies and procedures; and/or I have developed social work positions to meet agency needs; and/or I have recruited and trained staff to fill positions for military veterans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).