Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your highest level of electrical trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training Master Electrician o None of the above 2 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical construction I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job I have performed electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group 3 In which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Large commercial Industrial Laboratory or other specialized construction Remote site infrastructure including distributed power and water systems 4 Which of the following life-safety systems do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emergency generator (50 Kvw or higher) Fire pumps Fire suppression systems Fireman’s panel None of the above 5 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Other power tools such as cable pullers and pipe threading machines Voltage testers Recording amp meter Multimeters Frequency meters Watt meters Power factor meters Vibro-grounds Phase rotation meters Audio tone location equipment High potential testers Ground fault interrupter testers Cathodic protection test sets Resistance bridges Circuit analyzers/breaker testers Meggars All of the above None of the above 6 Which of the following test equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Signal generators Signal Tracers Oscilloscopes All of the above None of the above 7 On which of the following types of equipment do you have experience performing, as a regular part of your duties, preventive maintenance in a commercial or industrial building environment? Answer to this question is required Electrical motor control centers Lightning protection systems Single and three phase motors Electrical generators and transfer switches Electrical system and wiring All of the above None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have basic knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with electrical system troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical troubleshooting I have minimal experience with electrical troubleshooting I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, electrical systems troubleshooting I have led or supervised the work of others with electrical system troubleshooting 10 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have basic knowledge and have assisted electricians with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have immediate knowledge and minimal experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have extensive knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. 11 On which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience performing preventive maintenance? Answer to this question is required Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Fans/Air Handlers Electrical Heaters Household, Industrial and Shop equipment Variable Frequency Drive 480 volt distribution system 4160 volt distribution system none of the above 12 Do you have knowledge of the National Electrical Code? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Please select the statements that identify your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and applying the National Electrical Code to building plans. I have experience interpreting and applying the Nation Electrical Code to blueprints. I have experience interpreting and applying the Nation Electrical Code to wiring diagrams and engineer drawings. None of the above. 14 Do you have knowledge of local AZ electrical codes? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.