Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Officer functions as the office manager and directs all aspects of the support function with the office of the National Institute of Corrections (NIC). He/she works with program staff to identify, prioritize, and meet their support needs. He/she assesses, develops, and revises National Institute of Corrections (NIC) business processes for operational efficiency and effectiveness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, on a daily basis, organized own tasks to complete work in a timely fashion; and/or I have set priorities for own work and developed a plan for achieving them; and/or I have implemented a work plan, including goals, tasks, and timelines, developed by others. I have independently planned and organized own work to achieve the goals set by a supervisor; and/or I have developed and submitted a plan to a supervisor for improving a work unit’s ability to plan and organize its activities, which the plan was adopted and resulted in improvements to work quality and efficiency; and/or I have routinely assisted a supervisor in setting priorities for work unit, then developed a plan to organize tasks to achieve the priorities. I have independently planned and organized the activities of a work unit for achieving multiple and sometimes changing priorities; and/or I have independently developed and implemented long-term goals for a work unit, including identifying the tasks, resources, and timelines necessary to achieve those goals; and/or I have set long-term goals for the organization, then planned and organized the work of subordinates to support the achievement of those goals. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Officer supervises the support staff of National Institute of Corrections (NIC) office and provides them with guidance and technical supervision. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make necessary adjustments as needed. I have observed the process of teamwork and methods and techniques used to derive results; and/or I have identified and notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities; and/or I have assisted other staff in completing training needs assessments; and/or I have served as a mentor to employees of the organization. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Officer assesses, develops, and revises work processes to ensure the efficiency, effectiveness, and timeliness of the work of National Institute of Corrections (NIC) office. He/she continually assesses current processes for needed improvement, potential automation, and more effective use of technology; develops new processes where there are none. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented improvements to work processes; and/or I have submitted suggestions for improvement to work processes related to own tasks when requested; and/or I have implemented minor changes to own work practices, within the limits of established operational guidelines, that have improved own efficiency in task completion. I have assisted in reviewing and revising multiple work processes, resulting in improvements to organizational efficiency and effectiveness; and/or I have assessed and revised work processes related to own tasks, resulting in improved efficiency and effectiveness of own work; and/or I have recommended multiple work-process improvements to supervisor, which were implemented and resulted in operational improvements. I have ensured the efficiency and effectiveness of multiple work processes for the organization; and/or I have analyzed multiple core work practices and implemented new or improved practices that resulted in greater organizational efficiency and effectiveness; and/or I have directed a wide-scale revamping of office procedures that resulted in greater organizational efficiency and effectiveness. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Officer uses a variety of computer packages and programs applicable to document formatting and design, word processing, presentation materials, spreadsheets, data management, and general National Institute of Corrections (NIC) support activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used computer programs for general tasks; and/or I have provided instruction to co-workers in the use of one type of computer program; and/or I have prepared training materials and/or assisted in training others on how to use computer programs. I have used basic functions of computer programs to type memos or documents, retrieve documents from computer files, and print documents; and/or I have produced spreadsheets, charts, or presentation materials under guidance from someone experienced in the use of computer packages and programs; and/or I have trained others only in the use of word processing. I have routinely used various computer programs for a variety of complex tasks (such as creation of organizational charts, formatting documents, creating covers and illustrations for documents, development of databases, use of spreadsheets, use of presentation software); and/or I have guided staff in the use of various computer programs; and/or I have instructed training to others on how to use a variety of computer programs. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Officer proofreads and revises documents (such as reports, operations manuals, forms, and correspondence) for grammar, spelling, punctuation, sentence structure, clarity, and content accuracy and consistency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted the final proofreading and editing of documents internal to the agency; and/or I have assembled and edited documents, such as activity reports or operations manuals containing materials from a couple of contributors, ensuring the finished document is coherent and written correctly and in a consistent style; and/or I have provide guidance to co-workers on writing and proofreading documents within the agency. I have conducted the final proofreading and editing of documents such as memos, reports, operations manuals, correspondence, articles, and other documents that would be both internal and external to the organization; and/or I have assembled, edited, and rewritten documents, such as activity reports or operations manuals, that contained contributions from a variety of persons, ensuring the finished document is coherent and written correctly and in a consistent style; and/or I have assisted co-workers on writing and proofreading documents internal and external to the organization. I have proofread and edited documents internal to the organization, with a focus on grammar, spelling, punctuation, sentence structure, clarity, and content accuracy and consistency; and/or I have assembled and edited documents, such as activity reports or operations manuals containing materials from a single source; and/or I have assisted others on writing and proofreading general documents internal to the department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).