Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following:&nbsp; (1) Providing administrative and technical leadership or supervision to employees. (2) Managing an organization's day-to-day office services operations.&nbsp; (3) Analyzing and evaluating program performance data to identify problems and make recommendations for improvement.&nbsp; (4) Experience in directing highly technical, complex office services programs. No 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others, to include informal relationships such as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for, or in collaboration with, subordinates. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Made hiring or promotion recommendations or decisions. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Recommended or implemented disciplinary actions. None of the above. 3 Which activities have you performed to supervise administrative operations in your organization? Answer to this question is required Acted as a liaison to other departments Volunteered for special projects Tracked resources or equipment used Ordered supplies when inventory was low Developed special event plans Directed/supervised operations during special events Adjusted operations due to unexpected events (e.g., inclement weather, building closures) Adjusted procedures to maximize operational efficiency None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others. Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked. Offered coverage to ensure others received a break. Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality or timeliness was maintained. Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets). Actively listened with intent to understand and without accusation or blame. None of the above. 5 Which tasks have you performed to maintain stock of supplies or equipment? Answer to this question is required Verified low inventory levels Competed bids to multiple vendors Requested authorization to replenish inventory Transmitted a purchase order to vendors Developed supply plans Processed purchase orders Solicit bid proposals Determined ordering lead time Evaluated available storage/staging space Transferred supplies between cost centers/programs Reviewed requisitions None of the above 6 Select the activities you have performed to guide the day-to-day operations of an organization. Answer to this question is required Drafted and implemented new standard operating procedures Made revisions to existing procedures to improve operations Solicited input from staff on areas to improve operations Provided advice to staff on how to respond to unexpected operational disruptions Reassigned staff to ensure operational coverage None of the above 7 Do you have experience implementing operational changes based on your interpretation of customer satisfaction or organizational performance data? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Do you have experience helping staff meet requirements for records management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the responses pertaining to your problem-solving experience. Answer to this question is required Present, discuss and/or defend my findings with others prior to reaching a conclusion. Develop, prioritize, and recommend alternate solutions or courses of actions. Initiate and communicate pros and cons or solutions or courses of action. Brief analytical information to senior management officials. None of the above. 10 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 11 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Composing complex administrative documents or correspondence such as Agency cooperative or recognition programs. Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Composing daily activity reports regarding complex issues. None of the above 12 Choose the oral communication tasks you have performed at work. Answer to this question is required Provided advice, guidance and direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Provided briefings to executives. Provided informational presentations to co-workers. Provided non-technical instructions to others (e.g., subordinates, new hires). None of the above. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.