Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform custodial work. Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 2 Which of the following tasks have you performed while supervising custodial work units? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for/or in collaboration with subordinates. Completed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinates. Worked with Human Resources Staff to resolve problems. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training and/or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved complaints and grievances. None of the above 3 Do you have experience leading a diverse team in recycling, trash removal, and cleaning operations of large facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Which activities have you performed as a team leader? Answer to this question is required I have assigned tasks to employees, taking into account workload and skill levels I have reviewed completed work to ensure instructions were followed I have encouraged employees to participate in team planning activities I have communicated information to employees regarding work requirements and timelines I have monitored work progress I have provided technical direction to team members in accomplishing tasks None of the above 5 Which of the following types of information have you interpreted for cleaning crews? Answer to this question is required Organizational policies Cleaning standards Safety policies Appilcation instructions for cleaning chemicals Material Safety Data Sheets Safety procedures None of the above 6 Have you inventoried and ordered cleaning supplies and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Have you interpreted cleaning standards to create checklists or reference guides for use by cleaning crews? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Have you inspected the work of cleaning crews to ensure that facilities meet standards for cleanliness? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 9 Which tools, equipment, and supplies have you maintained for crews? Answer to this question is required Vacuums Cleaning Chemicals Cleaning Charts Mops Brooms Personal protective equipment (e.g. gloves, masks) None of the above 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed absentee reports Developed work plans Researched equipment Created/updated work orders Ordered supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 11 In which locations have you performed cleaning tasks? Answer to this question is required Offices Restrooms Building Lobbies Police Kiosks Cafeteria Elevators Stair wells None of the above 12 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 13 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 14 Which safety policies have you explained to a cleaning crew? Answer to this question is required Use of personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Chemical safety procedures Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.