Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following kinds of legal research have you performed? Answer to this question is required Researching a legislative history. Identifying appropriate statutes, regulations, case law, and other materials that are relevant to the disposition of a particular case or legal issue. Researching judicial decisions on a particular law. Researching a specific case or matter as designated by an attorney. Conducting basic factual research. None of the above. 2 I have performed the following activities related to the preparation and/or review of diplomatic correspondence, decision memoranda, and legal documents (e.g., surrender warrants, etc.): Answer to this question is required Proofreading for spelling and punctuation. Proofreading for adherence to appropriate legal document format. Editing for content and grammar. Editing for correct legal document style (e.g., local rules and appellate rules). Retrieving, organizing, indexing file materials to be used as exhibits. Checking citations to treaties for accuracy and applicability. Verifying the accuracy of references to indictments and identification documents. Verifying that all charges in an indictment have been included in an extradition request and all citations to criminal code violations are accurately reflected in the extradition requested. None of the above. 3 Which of the following have you used in conducting legal research? Answer to this question is required Public Library Territorial Codes (e.g., Guam Code Annotated) Law Library Westlaw Lexis / Nexis Internet Search Engines US Code (USC) Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Federal Register Docushare Hawaii Law Periodicals HO'OHIKI and/or JIMS Court Connect PACER Treaties and International Agreements Official documents of the United Nations (UN) Foreign Legal Codes None of the above 4 Select the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (i.e., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal or policy issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (i.e., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher-level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.