Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to do the work of a Maintenance Mechanic without more than normal supervision. I do NOT have the ability as described above. 2 This position requires a valid State or District of Columbia driver’s license in order to transport materials, equipment or staff to job sites. Do you have a valid “state” or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following describes your training and/or education in the maintenance trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Carpentry Plumbing Electrical Masonry Painting None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have had training/education in the electrical trade but I have no electrical construction/renovation experience. I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job. I have led and/or monitored the work of others performing electrical duties in the construction field. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your carpentry construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have had training/education in the carpentry trade but I have no experience in carpentry construction. I have assisted others in performing carpentry duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed carpentry duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job I have led and/or monitor the work of others performing carpentry duties in the construction field. None of the above 6 Which of the following statements best describe your experience as a painter in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required I have had training/education in the painting trade but I have not performed these duties on the job. I have assisted others performing painting duties. I have independently performed painting duties as a regular part of the job. I have no training, education or experience performing painting duties. 7 Which of the following plumbing systems do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drain, waste, and vent lines Domestic water systems and supply lines Water heating systems Faucets and fixtures Toilets and urinals None of the above 8 In which of the following building environment do you have the most experience performing maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Commercial Industrial None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of maintenance experience, education and/or training? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training None of the above 10 Which of the following types of construction do you have experience with? Answer to this question is required New Construction Remodeling/Retro fit Repair/Maintenance None of the above 11 In which of the following safety practices have you received education and/or training? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Universal waste disposal Proper setup/Cleanup methods Chemical handling procedures and equipment operation and maintenance Job hazard analysis (JHA) Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Personal protective equipment (PPE) Hand and power tools training None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience using measuring/layout instruments? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge and/or experience using measuring/layout instruments. I have performed tasks that required me to use measuring/layout instruments on a daily basis as a regular part of my job. I have led and/or trained others on how to use measuring/layout instruments. I have assisted others in performing tasks that require me to use measuring/layout instruments on an as-needed basis. 13 Which of the following measuring/layout instruments do you have experience using in the maintenance field? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Levels (line, framing, laser) Stud finders Tape measure Multi-meter Squares (framing, speed, laser) None of the above 14 Which of the following responses best describe your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I have experience reading specific instructions and directions to carry out the task as needed. I have experience reading and interpreting broad instructions, specifications, and directions and making judgments about what needs to be done to complete a task or assignment. I have experience reading and interpreting instructions related to performing a routine task to carry out my day-to-day duties. I have experience preparing various types of instructions, specifications, and directions for other to read and interpret. I have not done any of the above tasks. 15 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Word processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines AutoCAD None of the above 16 Do you have experience utilizing work orders and other written documents to perform maintenance work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following methods have you used to receive instructions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emails Work orders/tickets Emergency phone requests Supervisor requests/assignments Scheduled routine assignments None of the above 18 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the maintenance trade? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill and reciprocating saw) Plumber drain snakes Multi-meter Fiber optic camera systems Oxyacetylene torch None of the above 19 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience performing maintenance-related repairs? Answer to this question is required I have performed maintenance related repairs with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have received training in maintenance related repairs. I have independently performed maintenance related as a regular part of my duties. I have no experience performing maintenance related repairs. 20 Which of the following describes your structural maintenance experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Caulking Mounting hardware Ceramic tile Doors and hardware Drywall repair Framing None of the above 21 Which of the following paint materials do you have experience using in the maintenance trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Varnishes Dyes Stains Latex paints Oil base paints Epoxy paints coating None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.