Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 2 I have knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodologies of work in the colleciton, analysis, evaluation, interpretation, and dissemination of information in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Criminal Justice Intelligence Counterintelligence Counterterrorism Cyber Crimes Cultural / Geographic Studies Economics Political Science Psychology Physical Science Environment Law Sociology Science Military International Affairs None of the above 3 Which of the following adjudicative guidelines have you used in making a final security clearance determination? Answer to this question is required Allegiance to the US Foreign Influence Foreign Preference Sexual Behavior Personal Conduct Financial Considerations Alcohol Consumption Drug Involvement Psychological Conditions Criminal Conduct Handling Protected Information Outside Activities Use of information Technology Systems None of the Above 4 Which of the following duties have you routinely performed in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance? Answer to this question is required Retrieved a Report of Investigation from a centralized web based system. Ensured that investigative leads are complete. Wrote an analysis on findings from a review of reports of investigation. Formulated a written recommendation for a final determination on a security clearance. I have not performed any of the above duties in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance. 5 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses/assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences/symposia Interviews Press/public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet None of the above 6 Which of the following analytical techniques have you mastered? Answer to this question is required Determining and communicating trends and patterns. Filling gaps in information and project events. Developing alternative analyses. Applying statistical and modeling techniques to complex issues. Identifying anomalies. Ascribing meaning to events or information from disparate sources. Developing defensible judgments and conclusions based on accepted research and analytical methodologies. Accurately describing events. None of the above. 7 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goals. None of the above. 8 Select the actions you have taken or accomplishments that reflect your capabilities in analysis or problem solving: Answer to this question is required Applied a formal and disciplined approach to research and investigation assignments. Promoted a greater degree of evidenced based decision making in team projects. Analyzed similar and divergent information in order to reach a summary conclusion. Took action to probe more deeply and verify apparent contradictory information in order to ensure accurate conclusions. Produced final products that were factually based, detailed and accurate. Recognized by colleagues or supervisors colleagues for producing final products that exhibit precision, accuracy, discipline, internal consistency and integrity. None of the above. 9 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific external audience. I have written to defend a position . I have prepared and presented written findings / summaries of analyses. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to specific program personnel, subject-matter experts and/or management officials. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 10 From the following list, identify the types of written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Formal correspondence Policy documents Research grant proposals Procedures / instructional aids Journal / newspaper articles Intelligence reports Form letters Standardized reports Position papers Intelligence assessments PowerPoint or other similar assessments Interpretive guidance of regulations Legal briefs Witness statements Regulations Statements of Work (SOW) Memoranda Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.