Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience plastering surfaces. Answer to this question is required I have independently repaired decorative plaster work (e.g., rosettes, medallions) or created custom molds. I have independently repaired plaster walls and ceilings using a three-coat plaster process. I have assisted a plasterer by performing demolition, mixing plaster, or applying scratch coat. I have assisted with a construction project by setting up drop cloths, retrieving materials, or constructing plastic walls (e.g., zip walls) to contain dust. None of the above. 2 Select the tasks that you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Applied, maintained and restored plaster and similar materials on interior and exterior walls, ceilings and building partitions. Inspected and prepared the surfaces to be plastered. Applied tape to fire-rated and gas-proofed walls to prevent drafts. Installed beads to protect corners. Filled joints and imperfections. Mixed and applied compound. Sanded to create smooth surfaces. Textured concrete and prepared walls and ceilings for plastering. Applied coats of plaster to concrete and wire mesh foundation materials. Installed, repaired and restored mouldings and ornaments. Identified and reported health and safety hazards in the workplace. Practiced good housekeeping in the workplace. None of the above. 3 Which of the following special applications have you performed independently? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Textured concrete walls and ceilings. Textured prepared walls and ceilings (e.g., painted and previously textured drywall and plaster). Ornamental plastering. Sprayed fire proofing (fire retardant) to cover steel structural components specified to resist heat. Sprayed on non-setting and setting acoustic aggregate and non-aggregate materials on walls and ceilings. None of the above. 4 Have you worked as a drywaller? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which tasks have you performed to repair plaster? Answer to this question is required Cut away damaged plaster Squared an opening Fastened substrate Applied a scratch coat Applied a brown coat Trimmed a brown coat Applied a white coat Applied a Skim coat None of the above 6 Which tasks have you performed to finish drywall? Answer to this question is required Taping Blocking Skimming Sanding / Sponging None of the above 7 Which decorative items have you created with plaster? Answer to this question is required Baseboards Cornices Medallions Rosettes Replacement pieces for damaged statues / sculptures None of the above 8 Which of the following ornamental plastering methods have you applied? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Skip-troweling Sponging Brushing Knocking down Swirl texturing Graffito None of the above 9 Which of the following processes have you applied when performing plastering tasks? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Prepared job for the taping process. Performed interior base and finish plastering. Applied plaster veneer. Installed cornice moulding and ornamental moulding. Fabricated cast moulding and cornice. Installed pre-fabricated cornice moulding and ornamental moulding. Applied exterior cement plaster base and various finishes. Repaired drywall, taping and plaster. Applied special plaster finishes and specialty coatings. None of the above. 10 Which instructions have you followed to repair plaster surfaces? Answer to this question is required Room blueprints Bagged plaster mix instructions Work orders Wall numbering systems None of the above 11 For which of the following practices have you referred to manufacturers' instructions and industry practices to perform plastering tasks? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Determined when to proceed with drywall finishing. Selected and mixed fast-setting compound. Prepared walls and ceilings for texturing. Applied leveling coats, primer and sealers for walls and ceilings. Applied pre-mix compounds, aggregates, non-aggregates, base coat materials, finish coat materials, sealers and sealants. None of the above. 12 Do you have experience measuring walls and ceilings to create plumb corners? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do have experience measuring materials to the 16th of an inch? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience laying out to miter a cornice. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience mitering a cornice. I have assisted a plasterer in laying out new or replacement sections of mitered cornice. I have laid out miter work for small (e.g., less than 1 foot long) sections of cornice. I have laid out miter work for large (e.g., longer than 1 foot long) sections of cornice. 15 Do you have experience squaring a damaged area for plaster repair? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which materials have you applied to walls or ceilings? Answer to this question is required Spackle / joint compound Gypsalite / Structure lite Gauging plaster Molding plaster / plaster of paris Finishing plaster None of the above 17 Which materials have you used to create a substrate for plaster coatings? Answer to this question is required Wooden lathe Metal mesh lathe Blue board None of the above 18 Which materials have you used to repair ornamental plaster? Answer to this question is required Fiberglass tape Plaster weld Custom rubber molds None of the above 19 Which tools have you used to mix cement or plaster? Answer to this question is required Mixing pans Shovels Hoes Drill mixer None of the above 20 Which tools have you used to measure surfaces for construction, drywall, or plastering work? Answer to this question is required Tape measure Plumb bob Square Level None of the above 21 Which tools have you used to repair walls? Answer to this question is required Trowel Hawk Margin trowel Float Screed Mitering rods Darby Slickers Sanding block / Pole sander Sponge Texturing brush None of the above 22 In which locations have you repaired walls or performed construction work? Answer to this question is required Spaces with limited exists (e.g., under stairs) Scaffolding Hydraulic lifts Narrow spaces with little clearance (e.g., boiler rooms) None of the above 23 Do you have experience repairing walls or plaster work at heights reached with ladders, scaffolding, or hydraulic lifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Which of the following tasks have you performed regarding the proper handling of hazardous materials? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Determined which hazardous materials were no longer needed and disposed of them. Selected containers and added accumulated waste accordingly. Labeled containers. Moved waste to and from waste accumulation sites. Managed waste accumulation sites. Provided waste management guidance and responded to inquiries. None of the above. 25 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 25.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.