Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 4 Which of the following best describes the level of your knowledge of herbarium collections management practices and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have a doctoral degree in systematic botany or plant biology including courses orientated toward the use of herbarium collections OR equivalent experience in plant biology and collections management. I have a graduate degree in systematic botany or plant biology including courses orientated toward the use of herbarium collections OR equivalent experience in plant biology and collections care. I have an undergraduate degree in systematic botany or plant biology including courses orientated toward the use of herbarium collections OR equivalent experience in plant biology and collections use. I have an undergraduate degree AND experience in plant biology OR collections use. None of the above 5 Which of the following describes your experience with museum or archive collections management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience cataloging collection objects I have experience registering collection objects I have experience inventorying collection objects I have experience documenting collection objects I have experience preparing condition reports I have identified conservation issues related to specific materials or objects I have experience identifying and describing artifacts I have drafted collection histories and summaries I have processed collection acquisitions or de-accessions I have retrieved and explained collections or collections information to researchers I have labeled and numbered collections I have housed and stored museum or archive collections I have packed museum or archive collections for transit None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising a collections management staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising and training full-time collections management personnel engaged in acquiring, managing, and providing access to collections and collections-based research results, and I have established performance standards and performance plans and had formal performance evaluation responsibilities. I have experience as a work leader for teams or groups of collections management personnel, but have had no formal responsibility for performance evaluation. I have assisted in training new employees, interns, or volunteers. I have attended training courses in supervision or leadership. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in supervising staff and overseeing collections information management? Answer to this question is required I have supervised multiple employees, volunteers and contractors who work with collections information management on a daily basis. I have experience in supervising at least one employee or assisting volunteers working on digitizing collections. I have experience in assisting volunteers working on digitizing collections and interacting with researchers or volunteers. I have experience interacting with researchers or volunteers. I have no experience working with collections or interacting with researchers or volunteers. 8 Which of the following best describes your level of experience using computer software applications to manage museum collections? Answer to this question is required I have developed databases to manage and disseminate data from or about museum collections and have substantial experience working with spreadsheets and word processing software. I have moderate experience using databases to manage and disseminate data from or about museum collections and have substantial experience working with spreadsheets and word processing software. I have limited experience using database systems, spreadsheets, and word processing software through experience working in a museum. I have gained knowledge of database systems, spreadsheets, and word processing software through college or graduate level courses. I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have moderate knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have minimal knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have no knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, including those relating to collections transactions. I have no experience working with collections or interacting with researchers or volunteers. 10 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally with subject matter specialists external to the organization (e.g. external to a museum)?&nbsp; (Select all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed formal oral presentations or presented formal plans on collections matters at other museums, scientific organizations, government agencies or educational institutions. I have presented tours of the organization’s collections to external subject matter specialists. None of the above. 11 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally with subject matter specialists internal to the organization (e.g. internal to a museum)? (Select all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed formal oral presentations or presented formal plans on collections matters internally. I have provided advice to the museum or organizational community on a regular basis about collection holdings, curatorial procedures, archival materials and loan requests. I have assisted visiting researchers on collection arrangement, proper handling of specimens, or use of an organization’s Collections library. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items. I have education or training interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with museum&nbsp;or herbarium&nbsp;policies and procedures&nbsp;relative&nbsp;to research, collections, public outreach, and departmental administration? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in applying museum or herbarium policies and procedures to provide for the care and maintenance of a museum or herbarium collection as a regular part of my job. I have frequently provided for the care and maintenance of collections throughout a museum department or a herbarium. I have experience managing day-to-day activities in a museum collection or a herbarium. I have limited experience with museum policies and procedures. I have not done any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.