Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Do you have experience supervising employees performing painting tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. As a team leader I have reviewed the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. I have provided instructions or demonstrations to employees performing painting tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 5 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 What kinds of special finishing techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Marbling Graining Texturing Glazing Stenciling Lettering Gold Leaf None of the above 7 Select the surface preparation techniques that you have applied.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Solvent cleaning Power tool cleaning Chemical stripping Sanding Scraping Level 5 Skimming None of the above. 8 Select the surface preparation techniques that you have applied. Answer to this question is required Solvent cleaning Hand tool cleaning Power tool cleaning Water jetting Chemical stripping Abrasive blast cleaning Vacuum blast cleaning Centrifugal blast cleaning Sodium bicarbonate blast cleaning Sponge jetting Carbon dioxide blast cleaning Laser removal None of the above 9 Select the tasks that you have performed in the quality compliance inspection process. Answer to this question is required Pre-surface preparation Measurement of surrounding conditions Evaluation of compressor, air cleanliness, and surface preparation equipment Determination of surface preparation, cleanliness, and profile Mixing and thinning of coating materials Evaluation of application equipment Inspecting coating application and cleanliness between coats Determination of wet-film and dry-film thickness Pinhole and holiday testing Evaluating adhesion/cure None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to ensure hazardous materials (lead paint, used stain rags, latex materials) were safely stored or disposed of? Answer to this question is required I verified that the material was compatible with the secondary storage container before I stored or disposed of it. I made sure specific materials were stored in a designated hazardous accumulation site. I ensured that non-compatible materials were kept separately. I made sure containers were tightly sealed. I followed secondary labeling requirements prior to storing/disposal. None of the above. 11 Which response most closely matches your highest level of experience managing inventories of tools, equipment, or building system maintenance supplies? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing an inventory. I have inventoried tools and equipment under the direction of others. I ordered tools or equipment to ensure adequate supplies. I used inventories to forecast budgets for shop or maintenance supplies. 12 How have you used a computer at work? Answer to this question is required To research specifications or equipment To track my time and attendance To track inventory of tools or supplies To create or update work orders To develop work plans To develop project estimates To operate building automation systems None of the above 13 Which tools/equipment have you used to prep, paint, or apply decorative finishes to surfaces? Answer to this question is required Softening brushes/blending brushes Stippling brushes Sea sponges Floggers Graining combs Feathers Air brushes Squirrel tail brushes Gilding tips Agate burnishers Spectrophotometer None of the above 14 Which painting tools/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Nylon brushes Nylon/Polyester Blend brushes Black China brushes Ox Hair Blend brushes Polyester brushes White China brushes Wallpaper knives (broad, razor) Tint machines Sprayers Spray tips None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.