Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Please indicate the manner in which you have communicated orally or made oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Bilateral meetings International meetings Video conferences Leading training sessions Senior policy leader briefings Panelist or Panel Moderator Briefings for Senior Leadership None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your depth of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the foreign policy community? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have yet to perform it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually under the guidance or review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert. I have performed these tasks independently. I have performed these tasks as part of a team. I have performed these tasks but my work was monitored. I have no experience. 8 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your background in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in Foreign policy / international affairs. I have had education or training in Foreign policy / international affairs, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Please select the following governance-related programs or projects in which you have experience in planning, implementing, or managing. Answer to this question is required Delivery of essential social or economic services to constituents. Efficient and improved management of government resources. Development of democratic legal or regulatory framework. Civil society development. None of the above. 11 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience conducting research in the immigration laws or policies of the United States: Answer to this question is required Published in peer review journal. Published in a periodical. Created working papers or research reports. Undertaken studies at the B.A. or M.A. level. Completed a dissertation. Completed a master's thesis. Presented paper(s) at professional conferences. Written policy position papers / briefs. None of the above 12 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 13 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge of the theories and techniques, and reporting of strategic information that is quantitative in nature. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have some experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have limited experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have education or training in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have no experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. 14 From the following list, please indicate the statistical programs / languages in which you are proficient: Answer to this question is required SPSS SAS Stata AMOS LISREL Mplus Latent Gold MLLSA R None of the above 15 With which of the following software programming language(s) do you have experience? Answer to this question is required C++ Java Javascript HTML XML Visual Basic ASP Microsoft.NET (C#, VB.NET, etc.) Cold Fusion PHP (hypertext preprocessor) Cobol CICS JCL SQL None of the above 16 From the following list of data presentation software tools, please identify those that you have used to interpret data: Answer to this question is required SPSS S-PLUS Stata Microsoft Excel Python D3 (data-driven-documents) Microsoft PowerPoint MATLAB / Mathematica / Maple Data Applied R Tableau e-Spatial ArcGIS Google Charts / Google Maps None of the above 17 From the following list, please indicate the database program(s) with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Microsoft Office Suite Oracle Microsoft SQL Server ArcCatalog ArcGIS SharePoint None of the above 18 Which of the following qualitative / quantitative analysis functions have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Gathered statistical data Worked with spreadsheets Performed qualitative analyses Performed quantitative analyses Designed / developed qualitative and/or quantitative analysis plans Designed / developed graphs and charts Produced supply chain queries and reports None of the above 19 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 20 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 21 Do you have experience using advanced SQL syntax and structured query language (sql) tools e.g., Toad, SQL+, Advanced Access, etc. to create a variety of standard and complex reports? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.