Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge and hands-on experience managing workstation configuration leveraging scripting or COTS products ** Applied knowledge of configuration management techniques using scripting or COTS products to perform the following actions for workstations (Mac or PC): 1 centrally managed configurations through targeted jobs; 2 deployed system &amp; third party software updates through automation, tracking success &amp; remediating failures; 3 created &amp; maintained COTS &amp; homegrown software, leveraging custom configurations to package &amp; deploy software; 4 designed &amp; maintained build process including enterprise image, security baselines &amp; third party applications; 5 monitored &amp; enforced security baselines (DISA Stigs, NIST/CIS) &amp; compliance; 6 developed scripts (bash, powershell, etc.) to manage automated configuration changes, gather logging data, or execute conditional tasks; &amp; 7 troubleshoot &amp; remediate issues associated with prior elements. Please describe the situation, actions taken &amp; results Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge in performing ALL of the above tasks. Applied extensive knowledge in performing SIX (6) of the above tasks. Applied extensive knowledge in performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge and hands on experience managing workstation compliance enforcement and vulnerability remediation. ** Applied knowledge of compliance and vulnerability remediation for workstations when performing the following activities: 1) located and validated presence and scope of workstation vulnerability; 2) determined cause and source of workstation vulnerability; 3) developed and validated solution to remediate vulnerability; and 4) confirmed all instances remediated and mitigated any outliers. Please describe the situation, actions taken and results when answering the question Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge in performing ALL of the above activities. Applied extensive knowledge in performing THREE (3) of the above activities. Applied extensive knowledge in performing TWO (2) of the above activities. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge and hands on experience troubleshooting workstation service disruptions. ** Applied knowledge of troubleshooting techniques to remediate a workstation service disruption (outage) impacting a large group of systems. In doing so, apply troubleshooting efforts that encompass a specific event you took part in outlining the following activities: 1) identified the problem impacting the group of workstations; 2) developed a theory of the probable cause; 3) validate your theory; 4) developed an action plan; 5) implemented action plan; 6) evaluated results; and 7) documented solution and lessons learned. Please describe the situation, actions taken and results when answering the question. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge in performing ALL of the above troubleshooting workstation service disruptions. Applied extensive knowledge in performing SIX (6) of the above troubleshooting workstation service disruptions. Applied extensive knowledge in performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above troubleshooting workstation service disruptions. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 10 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).