Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 2 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 8 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choices that describe investigative techniques which you have used in performing work assignments: Answer to this question is required Following leads Researching records Preparing reports Contacting or interviewing to obtain information Searching for physical or documentary evidence or clues Using evidence to substantiate findings or conclusions Examining records to detect links in a chain of evidence or information None of the above 2 From the list of investigative writings below, select those that you have personally drafted. Answer to this question is required Interview write up Prosecutorial summary Report of Investigation Memo of conversation / Note to file / spot report Affidavit in support of criminal complaint Affidavit in support of a search warrant Article for trade publication Tactical plan Investigative plan None of the above 3 Select from the list below each of the investigative techniques you have successfully employed in the course of your official duties. Answer to this question is required Interviews / interrogations Mail cover Technical surveillance Foot surveillance Record checks Checks of computerized databases Comparison of known photographs of a subject to questioned photographs of a subject Comparison of known documents to questioned documents Link analysis program to establish relationships and graphic representations of those relationships Sworn statements Properly used Miranda, Garrity, or Kalkines warnings Arrest warrants Search warrants Vehicle surveillance Confidential informants Undercover operations Subpoenas None of the above 4 Which type(s) of risk management analyses have you conducted independently? Answer to this question is required Event Tree Analysis Fault Tree Analysis Probability of Failure Estimating Consequences Calculating Population at Risk Expert elicitation None of the above 5 Which of the following risks have you considered during an operation? Answer to this question is required Personnel (e.g., the protectee, potential adversaries) Site (e.g., building layout, security features, neighborhood risks) Accidental (e.g., potential human errors, unpredictable circumstances like fires and consequences) Natural (e.g., current and forecasted weather conditions) Historical data (e.g., frequency of attacks, political or economic conditions) None of the above 6 Which circumstances have you considered when determining the need for a contingency plan? Answer to this question is required Policy regulation changes that affected my project Sudden changes in organizational priorities A lack of resources A more pressing deadline was approaching A new project or task requirement was added None of the above 7 Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating orally: Answer to this question is required I have interviewed or questioned others to gather needed information. I have orally provided information to others to defend my position. I have explained technical information to non-technical individuals. I have discussed and explained material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have persuaded others based on facts gathered and determinations that I made. None of the above. 8 Select the response(s) that describe your oral communication experience: Answer to this question is required I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to instruct. I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to persuade or negotiate. I have represented management in meetings or conferences. I have conducted informal technical training for others. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.