Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 GS-14: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-14: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In which of the following events / activities have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience processing medical clearances and ensuring compliance with established rules, regulations, policies, procedures and guidelines? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education and/or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task routinely as a regular part of my job, usually under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I am highly skilled in processing medical clearances and ensuring compliance with established rules, regulations, policies, procedures and guidelines. 5 What is your level of experience providing advice or guidance on the IT Governance process? Answer to this question is required I have not established or provided advice or guidance on elements of an IT governance process. I have provided advice and guidance on elements of a bureau or office IT governance process. I have established and managed elements of a bureau or office IT governance process. I have provided advice and guidance on elements of the Department-wide IT governance process. I have established and managed elements of a Department-wide IT governance process. 6 Which of the following certifications have you used (i.e., knowledge gained from the certification) to maintain IT security? Answer to this question is required CISSP CISM Auditor certification SANS GIAC MCSE - NT/00/03 MCP Security + A + Network + PMP - Project Management Professional None of the above 7 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work units or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets Planning work assignments and schedules Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness Following up with employees Developing workforce plans Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implementing work completed Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Rewarding and recognizing employee's performance Providing career development opportunities None of the above 8 Which of the following staffing functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have created staff positions. I have prepared employee performance appraisals. I have interviewed and hired staff. I have terminated employees or performed other adverse actions. I have identified employees for bonuses, awards, or other incentives. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee performance appraisals. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to hiring decisions. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee terminations or adverse actions. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee bonuses, awards or incentives. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your experience conducting or overseeing learning analysis and assessment efforts, such as: front end / learning needs analysis, job task analysis, curriculum analysis, and/or other training assessment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 12 Which of the following BEST describes your experience planning and conducting conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience planning and conducting conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience. I have education or training in planning and conducting conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely planned and conducted conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience, usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently planned and conducted conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience, usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at planning and conducting conferences and/or seminars with the purpose of informing a target audience, having trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.