Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide administrative, operational and program coordination support.** Provided administrative, operational, and program coordination support for an office. In doing so: 1) coordinated incoming calls, emails, correspondence, and visitors by screening, prioritizing, and directing inquiries to appropriate staff; 2) coordinated office operations, including scheduling, mail services, and supplies; 3) acted as a liaison for facilities, procurement, property, and service requests to resolve operational needs; 4) served as a records management liaison; 5) provided HR administrative support for hiring, promotions, schedule changes, awards, and performance tracking; 6) maintained GovTA time and attendance records, resolves discrepancies, and guides staff on proceduresl and 7) supported budget, procurement, and operations by tracking expenditures, compiling financial data, and processing requisitions. Answer to this question is required In an administrative capacity, performed ALL of the activities listed above In an administrative capacity, performed FIVE (5) of the activities listed above In an administrative capacity, performed THREE (3) or of the activities listed above None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide budgetary and financial management support.** Provided comprehensive budgetary and financial management functions in support of advertising, marketing and operational programs. This included 1) facilitated, reconciled, and analyzed financial and budgetary data related to advertising obligations, marketing initiatives, and operational procurements 2) analyzed financial trends, spending patterns, and program requirements to support budget planning and execution activities; 3) identified discrepancies, irregularities, or potential funding shortfalls and recommends corrective actions; 4) served as a government purchase card holder; 5) coordinated and maintained financial tracking systems and budget control tools to monitor program funds throughout the fiscal year; and 6) coordinated and maintained financial management documentation, including SOPs, instructional guides, and internal controls to support consistent financial practices and compliance with Library policies. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, performed ALL of the above functions in support of advertising, marketing and operational programs. As a primary responsibility, performed FOUR (4) and FIVE(5) of the above functions in support of advertising, marketing and operational programs. As a primary responsibility, performed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above functions in support of advertising, marketing and operational programs. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of federal acquisition regulations, contract administration, and procurement management.** Applied working knowledge of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Library of Congress FAR (LC FAR) to support contract administration, procurement planning, and acquisition management activities. In doing so, performed the following: 1) Monitored contractor performance and contract compliance to ensure timely delivery of quality work; 2) Evaluated contractor deliverables and monitored contract performance to identify risks and ensure compliance with project requirements; 3) Coordinated procurement actions by preparing purchase requisitions, gathering requirements documentation and ensuring compliance with Procurement Action lead Times; 4) Reviewed contractor invoices for compliance and maintained contract documentation; and 5) Supported contract modifications, follow-on acquisitions, and proposal evaluations in accordance with procurement regulations and Library procedures. Answer to this question is required Used knowledge of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Library of Congress FAR (LC FAR) to perform ALL of the above tasks. Used knowledge of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Library of Congress FAR (LC FAR) to perform FOUR (4) to of the above tasks. Used knowledge of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Library of Congress FAR (LC FAR) to perform THREE (3) to of the above tasks. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to serve as a liaison. The ability to serve as a liaison for an office/agency and with external organizations. This includes maintaining contact with staff and managers at all levels of the organization to facilitate the coordination of administrative tasks and serving as a contact person for customer problems, questions or concerns. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts with managers, supervisors, staff, clients and others inside and outside the organization to further the organizational goals and to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Maintained cooperative relationships in difficult or conflicted situations. Demonstrated the ability to communicate complex or sensitive, confidential and/or controversial concepts. Played a key role in discussions, concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal and external to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Demonstrated the ability to communicate business concepts for an organization to individuals with similar views and goals. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Demonstrated the ability to communicate business concepts for an organization to individuals with similar views and goals. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished.&nbsp;&nbsp;This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision planned, organized and executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities, including identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. With supervision, completed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Work assignments were primarily planned by supervisors. Met deadlines and accomplished work under general supervision. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to utilize computer technology. Utilized technology to support administrative work for an organization, including: 1) personnel systems (e.g., EmpowHR), 2) financial systems (e.g., Momentum, eManagement), 3) time and attendance systems (e.g., GovTA), 4) word-processing (e.g., Word), 5) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 6) email (eg., Outlook, Microsoft), 7) electronic calendars, 8) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint), 9) Library's excutive correspondence management system (CCM Murcury), and 10) various office equipment (e.g., digital copier, scanner, and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Independently used advanced features of ALL of the above technologies to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. Routinely used BETWEEN SEVEN (7) to NINE (9) of the above technologies, including 1), 2) and 4) to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. Routinely used FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above technologies, including 1), 2) and 4) to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).