Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Program Manager must possess comprehensive knowledge of and understanding of mission and goals of UNICOR. He/she is responsible for managing various production processes and operations for a manufacturing facility. Decisions made by him/her directly impacts FPI&rsquo;s mission to produce and supply agencies of the Federal government with quality products at costs not to exceed current market prices. Decisions made by him/her directly impact production, profit, and UNICOR&rsquo;s ability to meet its mission and goals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed business plan and met established objectives for fiscal period for several production lines; and/or I have handled and adjusted several product lines or departments to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements for the factory; and/or I have conducted work measurement studies to resolve production issue for two or more production lines. I have modified operations to accommodate product line changes and scheduling; and/or I have reviewed business plan and met established objectives for fiscal period; and/or I have adjusted product lines or departments to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements for the factory. I have inspected multiple product lines to determine safety violations and needed response; and/or I have monitored workload to determine if production goals within a department were being met; and/or I have determined sufficient manpower resources existed for a department. None of the above. 5 The Program Manager directly and/or indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinate employees on projects; and/or I have modified existing operations to accommodate special requests from customers (e.g., increased total number of finished products needed and rush shipment/delivery requirements); and/or I have met with subordinate workforce, in compliance with existing policy to discuss performance and training requirements. I have visited, inspected and observed an industrial operation to report/instruct/avoid improper procedures(safety, production and maintenance); and/or I have implemented changes to operations to accommodate product line requirements and scheduling; and/or I have participated in monthly financial meetings to analyze production/financial progress; and/or I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have determined and implemented priorities and goals to accomplish specific industrial related objectives; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement. I have met with subordinate workforce according to established agency/organization policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have completed performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of the division/unit/office; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating a performance based disciplinary action. None of the above. 6 The Program Manager is responsible for preparing technical and non-technical reports, letters and other correspondence for the General Manager/Assistant Director. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information relative to program area. He/she develops reports, policies, plans and other documents used to maintain and/or improve industrial operations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared draft articles for Monday Morning Highlights or agency specific newsletter update; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-worker/ peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have assisted others in preparing a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (technical journal and magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees. None of the above. 7 The Program Manager communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of Federal Prison Industries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group which included members of the upper management/executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues. I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to senior level/top management as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I ave briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided formal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have given formal presentations to the executive staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have given formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with labor union; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. None of the above. 8 The Program Manager must possess the ability to direct complex projects of a wide variety in a simultaneous manner, using all available resources.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others in determining resources required to satisfy a contract proposal; and/or I have participated as a member of a team to coordinate factory requirements to accommodate a newly awarded contract; and/or I have planned work requirements/efforts based on established operating plans or goals. I have developed and implemented operating plans which exceeded sales and/or earning goals; and/or I have organized changes and re-prioritized production plans due to customer change requirements and met delivery schedule of finished product; and/or I have shifted priorities between product families to ensure a balance is maintained and accomplish operating plan expectations; and/or I have anticipated customer needs and coordinated efforts with vendors, suppliers and factories to ensure contract requirements are met. I have provided recommendations for further consideration on methods to improve current sales/earnings potential of a product line; and/or I have maintained the operations of a multiple product line factory by reorganizing manpower based on production requirements; and/or I have met production and performance goals by effectively planning and utilizing available resources. None of the above. 9 The Program Manager must analyze and evaluate a variety of information to certain if current programs, processes, and/or procedures are meeting their intended goals for Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (UNICOR). He/she must be able to systematically identify, monitor, investigate, and analyze operational and program issues affecting the management of the organization, and must be able to establish appropriate responses or resolutions to both short-term and long-term problems and/or issues encountered.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed program review/operational reviews and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. Based on key indicator information, I have developed new or modified existing strategic management plans to meet the needs of the agency/ organization; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations are maintained; and/or I have recommended method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices. None of the above. 10 The Program Manager is required to develop and manage complex customer service, marketing, and sales programs for multiple UNICOR product lines. He/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of the products in order to effectively implement plans and programs to increase customer satisfaction, market the products prospective clients, and set appropriate sales goals for production.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented cost savings initiatives/plans/ideas which reduced production costs and increased productivity; and/or I have developed and implemented a marketing/sales/customer service program which determined the need for changes and increased customer satisfaction; and/or I have promoted a new sales or marketing strategy to prospective clients for a new product, which resulted in a significant contract being awarded. I have visited, inspected and observed areas of responsibility to ensure measures to reduce waste and increase productivity are being utilized by factory employees; and/or I have reassigned workforce to accommodate client requirements for end product; and/or I have maintained inventory of available materials and goods to accommodate deadlines of product completion required by customer. I have maintained contact with clients to ensure satisfaction with service and implemented changes required to ensure continued relations; and/or I have recommended methods of implementing a marketing strategy to solicit/attract business from new clients; and/or I have participated in monthly financial meetings to discuss factory sales accomplished and formulate future sales projections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).