Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 Quality Ranking Factors: Experience performing all duties as a physician in a Telehealth platform to perform patient visits and physical exams utilizing electronic stethoscopes and other Telehealth equipment. Applicants must clearly address these factors in their resume. NOTE: The above quality ranking factor is preferred. Therefore, applicants who possess the quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidates can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Telehealth Medical Officer must effectively communicate on a regular and recurring basis with medical professionals, Bureau of Prisons staff, outside resource staff, patients, and health service organizations in the community in order to provide guidance on healthcare evaluations and treatment, and leadership in the delivery of health care to the patient population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate, participate in and oversee the functioning and growth of the telehealth services within the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians, and insurance carriers to resolve complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have presented at a medical convention or conference as a keynote speaker/presented on clinical or healthcare system best practices; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the cost efficiency or clinical benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have participated in a workgroup/taskforce to resolve clinical or healthcare system care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for the health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances and concerns; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. None of the above. 6 The Telehealth Medical Officer must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and assessment of the patient population. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation; and/or I have documented consistently in the electronic health record virtual or in-person health care encounters in Subjective, Objective, Assessment, Plan, Education (SOAPE) or similar format (i.e., chief complaint and history of present illness, treatment adherence and medication side effects, vital signs, physical findings, assessment and plan); and/or I have made accurate diagnoses with appropriate treatment plans and education while effectively documenting in the electronic health record. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training, at a medical facility; and/or I have published articles in medical journals or textbooks; and/or I have prepared budget request packet for consideration by health care facility administrators. I have documented history and physicals, diagnostic treatment plans and evaluations, and discharge summaries on emergency, clinic or hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies (i.e., Worker’s Compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications, etc.); and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to a specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. None of the above. 7 The Telehealth Medical Officer is responsible for treating the various medical needs of primarily adult patients within the confines of a correctional institution. He/she must possess the comprehensive ability to assess the condition of the patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements, or initiate requirements to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed comprehensive history and physical examinations appropriate to the patients chief complaint; and/or I have developed logical list of probable diagnoses based on patient history and examination and ordered appropriate tests in a logical order to include or exclude the most likely illness; and/or I have performed independently diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within the scope of his/her training and experience (i.e., joint injections and aspirations, skin and subcutaneous biopsies of cancerous or precancerous lesions, exercise treadmill testing); and/or I have interpreted independently electrocardiograms (ECG), pulmonary function tests, and appropriately identified acute findings on chest, abdominal, spine and extremity x-rays to determine appropriate initial management based on these findings. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, electrocardiograms (ECG), and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., sutures and cryosurgery). I have consulted with another physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for private sector employer; and/or I have performed routine medical services in an urgent care clinic. None of the above. 8 The Telehealth Medical Officer must possess the ability to effectively manage patient chronic and acute care regimens including accurately assessing and diagnosing medical conditions, forming and implementing appropriate diagnostic and treatment care plans, and prescribing the safest and most effective medications and treatment modalities to treat illnesses and diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals such as American Family Physician, New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine; and/or I have participated in the implementation of policy and standards such as the American Correctional Association, or other nationally recognized accrediting agency; and/or I have reviewed patient medication profiles and performed medication reconciliations (i.e. discussed new medications during education programs, replaced established medications with newly released medications). I have referenced electronic medical resources such as UpToDate or clinical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have documented appropriately medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements; and/or I have consulted with a specialty physician or clinical pharmacist when a patient’s medications do not appear to be controlling the disease/unexpected symptoms arise after a change in medications. I have researched and applied current evidence-based treatment guidelines applicable to their practice (i.e., Joint National Committee on the Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure, Treatment of High Blood Pressure, American Diabetes Association (ADA) for diabetes, National Cholesterol Education Program and other medical agencies/professional associations); and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education conferences for area of specialty/training; and/or I have represented the agency as a participant in professional conferences, hearings, and committees. None of the above. 9 The Telehealth Medical Officer must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and patient population in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs or services; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have recommended corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems related to diagnostic or treatment services; and/or I have worked as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. None of the above. 10 The Telehealth Medical Officer employed by the Bureau of Prisons must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations. This knowledge is necessary in order to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care/constraints of a correctional institution health care environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched and applied current evidence-based treatment guidelines applicable to their practice (i.e., Joint National Committee on the Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure, American Diabetes Association (ADA) Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes, American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (AHA) for cholesterol and heart disease, Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for infectious diseases, United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) for screening recommendations and preventive interventions for cancer and other chronic and infectious diseases); and/or I have provided instruction (in person or virtually) on clinical treatment protocols across a broad spectrum of disease processes; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care. I have referenced medical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have appropriately documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements; and/or I have frequently consulted with senior physicians before applying medical practice standards to patient caseloads. I have performed detailed histories, assessments and physical examinations of patients on assigned caseloads; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from primary care journals (i.e., American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine) or electronic resources such as UpToDate or the Cochrane database, PubMed; and/or I have applied practice standards to patients receiving care/treatment. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).