Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Experience in managing, leading, or directing teams and projects dealing with cost-of-service ratemaking, energy and capacity markets, major rulemakings, RTO/ISO issues and energy policy issues, which includes preparing market working group memoranda, option papers and preparing Commission orders and recommendations. 2 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, SF-50, ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 2 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in the competitive service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the complex issues associated with the regulation of the electric utility industry in which you have researched, analyzed and formulated recommendations. (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Design and operation of RTO/ISO energy and/or capacity markets. Market power mitigation. Transmission planning and cost allocation. Cost of service and rate design. Major rulemakings (e.g., Order Nos. 719, 831, 841, 845, 1000, 2222, 2023, etc.). None of the above 5 Select the complex issues associated with the regulation of electric industry matters in which you have performed and led others in analyzing. &nbsp;(check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Design and operation of RTO/ISO energy and/or capacity markets. Market power mitigation. Transmission planning and cost allocation. Cost of service and rate design. Major rulemakings, such as Order Nos. 719, 831, 841, 845, 1000, 2222, 2023, etc None of the above 6 Select the response that best describes your experience as project or team leader in defending technical recommendations on complex electric utility industry issues to high ranking officials. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have discussed and defended technical recommendations on complex issues at meetings with Commissioners and their assistants. I have discussed and defended technical recommendations on complex issues at market working group meetings and preagenda. I have discussed and defended technical recommendations to my group manager/reviewer. I have not had an opportunity to defend my technical recommendations. 7 In a professional setting, what types of resources have you used to independently conduct research or undertake an analysis on complex wholesale electric industry or wholesale electric policy issues? Answer to this question is required Legislation Regulations or other governmental requirements/guidance Energy data Financial data Court decisions Academic materials Technical or scientific materials Trade press State or Federal Commission orders None of the above 8 Which response best describes your knowledge of and / or experience with Commission's rules, regulations and policies relevant to the regulation of the electric industry? Answer to this question is required I have little to no knowledge of the Commission’s rules, regulations, and policies and refer to subject matter experts for guidance. I have knowledge of the Commission’s rules, regulations, and policies but consult with subject matter experts for a higher level of interpretation and their implications. In a former role, I routinely referred to the Commission's rules, regulations, and policies and interpreted them myself. In a former role, I have routinely helped others interpret the Commission's rules, regulations and policies. 9 My knowledge of the Commission's regulations and policies related to the electric utility industry is evident by my experience in analyzing the following types of electric utility industry filings: (check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required RTO/ISO market rules and tariffs, including energy and capacity markets Knowledge of Sections 203,204, 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act Cost of service rates, terms and conditions and rate design (stated rates and formula rates) Transmission planning and cost allocation Market power mitigation Major rulemakings, such as Order Nos. 719, 831, 841, 845, 1000, 2222, 2023, etc Generator interconnection issues Electric Reliability Organization budgets or delegation agreements None of the above 10 Which of the following electric utility statutes, regulations and policies have you routinely and independently interpreted: (Check all that apply.)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Sections 203 and 204 of the Federal Power Act Section 205 of the Federal Power Act Section 215 of the Federal Power Act Commission rules and regulations None of the above 11 Which response best describes your knowledge and/or experience with sections 203, 204, 205, and 215 of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the Commission's rules, regulations and policies relevant to the regulation of the electric power industry?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of these sections of the FPA and the Commission’s rules, regulations, and policies. I have some knowledge of these sections of the FPA and the Commission’s rules, regulations, and policies I consult with subject matter experts, or others, for a higher level of interpretation on these sections of the FPA and the Commission's rules, regulations and policies. I have independently interpreted some or all of these sections of the FPA and the Commission's rules, regulations and policies, and I have also assisted others in their interpretation. 12 Select the documents that describes your experience addressing complex issues associated with the electric utility industry. &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Formal Commission orders. Market working group memos. Policy memos. Rulemakings None of the above 13 Select the statement that describes your level of communication and coordination with analysts and key decision makers regarding novel, controversial and/or contested electric power issues.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I routinely (as a regular part of the job) communicate and coordinate verbally and in writing with analysts and key decision makers regarding complex electric utility issues, which often include elements of first impression. I independently (or with little guidance) complete tasks associated with this process. I routinely (as a regular part of the job) communicate and coordinate verbally and in writing with analysts and key decision makers regarding electric utility issues that sometimes include complex issues. I have completed some of the tasks independently but seek guidance on difficult issues. I have provided input and assisted in communicating and coordinating routine matters with analysts and key decision makers. I have no experience in communicating and coordinating routine matters with analysts and key decision makers. 14 In which of the following settings have you presented information related to the electric utility industry: Answer to this question is required Industry conferences or meetings Participation at RTO/ISO stakeholder meetings Staff meetings with senior staff, including market working group meetings Preagenda Meetings with individual Commissioners and their assistants Prefiling meetings with industry members, including RTOs/ISOs Team meetings FERC Technical Conferences (staff-led or Commission-led) Training courses Commission meetings None of the above 15 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience working in a team setting addressing complex electric utility issues. Answer to this question is required I routinely lead a multi-disciplinary team on projects tasks associated with drafting option papers and Commission orders addressing technically complex electric utility issues, and ensure that the assignment is completed on time, is of high quality and addresses all issues I occasionally lead a multi-disciplinary team on projects associated with drafting option papers and Commission orders addressing technically complex electric utility issues, to ensure the assignment is completed on time, is of a high quality and addresses all issues I have served as a team leader responsible for planning, organizing, and coordinating work tasks to resolve electric utility issues on routine cases involving electric utility issues I have served as a team member under direct supervision but with responsibility for ensuring that technically complex issues I am assigned are fully addressed and completed in a timely manner None of the above 16 As a team lead have you frequently established goals, created a strategy to achieve goals including dates, milestones, and achieved or exceeded established goals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 From the following list, please identify those responsibilities that reflect your experience motivating, leading and providing structure to complete work projects. Answer to this question is required Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation was essential to the success of a project. Provided direction, guidance or instruction to members of inter-disciplinary teams charged with carrying out a technical project. Used consensus-building techniques to persuade representatives of groups that held opposing views or positions, to reach agreement on important issues. Diffused confrontational events involving people who were difficult, or distressed. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).