Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 All candidates for Data Scientist positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Basic Requirement: Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. OR Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. 1 Do you meet the Basic Requirement as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is technical data analytics expertise in working with teams to develop data-driven solutions, products and definitions that address program and business challenges. This experience must include: Gathering and compiling data from a variety of business data systems; Consulting with diverse stakeholders and using analysis tools to design and implement data analyses; Using appropriate analytic and statistical software to programmatically prepare data for analysis and clean imperfect data; Translating data analyses into meaningful, easily understood communications; Conducting observational analyses using software and/or programming languages including R, Python, Microsoft Power BI, and SQL to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and inform decisions; Developing automated data solutions (including dashboards and visualizations); and Providing input to management for decisions on an organization's enterprise data environment and/or data management practices. 2 Do you have one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as stated above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have intermediate or advanced experience with the following tool(s): Answer to this question is required Structured Query Language (SQL) Business Intelligence Microsoft Excel R or Python Statistical Programming Data Visualization None of the above 4 I am experienced in using the following data visualization tools to develop quantitative models, forecasts and visualizations based on generally accepted statistical methods. Answer to this question is required Tableau, MicroStrategy, and/or Power BI. Excel, and/or Google Sheets. Python Visualization Tools (e.g. matplotlib). R Visualization Tools (e.g. shiny, ggplot). None of the above. 5 From the following list of data visualization tools, select only those items that you have experience developing visualizations on a frequent and recurring basis. This experience should be work performed independently and without direction from a supervisor or team lead. Answer to this question is required Tableau. Microstrategy. QlikView. D3. Microsoft Power BI. Other data visualization tool. None of the above. 6 Select the following business intelligence tools that you are able to utilize the common features without additional guidance and instruction in order to report, analyze, and present data. Answer to this question is required Spreadsheets Reporting and Querying Software Predictive Analytical Software Dashboards Data Mining Process Mapping Business Performance Management Relational Database Management Systems None of the above. 7 I have performed the following usability testing activities: Answer to this question is required Developed testing goals and priorities. Developed testing schedules. Developed test scenarios and other relevant testing tools. Recruited test participants. Facilitated tests. None of the above. 8 I have experience performing the following Information Technology/analytical training tasks: Answer to this question is required Leading the planning, writing, and delivering training for customers/end-users of IT/analytical solutions, to include the creation of web-content, tutorials, and the hosting of live, in-person, or remote training sessions. Contributing to the planning, writing, and delivering training for customers/end-users of IT/analytical solutions, to include the creation of web-content, tutorials, and the hosting of live, in-person or remote training sessions. Developing web-content training for users of IT/analytics solutions. Conducting training for end-users on IT/analytics solutions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. Please Note : Effective January 1, 2010, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize any employment offers we make to current or former (within the last 5 years) political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES (Political) employees in the Executive Branch. So, if you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service. 1 Are you currently, or have you been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please provide the following information regarding your most recent political appointment: 1. Position Title. 2. Type of Appointment (i.e., Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non Career SES). 3. Agency. 4. Dates held (beginning and ending dates). Your response will be limited to 2,000 characters, which is approximately one-half typewritten page in length. Maximum length of 2000 characters. No 2 Are you applying for this position based on current eligibility under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If you are applying for this position under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), select the choice(s) that apply: I am an employee from another Federal agency and am eligible for selection preference under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) . I have served at or above the full performance level of the position (see vacancy announcement). The position from which I was displaced was in the same local commuting area as the vacancy (see vacancy announcement). I do not meet all of the above requirements. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).