Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to communicate in English and Spanish.** Communicated professional and/or technical information in English and Spanish to support a wide range of professional activities including reading, writing, speaking, and/or translating. The candidate must have at least a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tasks. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience communicating professional and/or technical information in English and Spanish in a professional environment, including reading, writing, speaking, and translating between English and Spanish with the fluency and familiarity of a native or near native speaker. Must have a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. Has experience communicating professional and/or technical information in English and Spanish in a professional environment, including reading, writing, speaking and translating between English and Spanish in order to perform reference, research and/or related activities. Must have a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. Has experience communicating professional and/or technical information in English and Spanish, as evidenced by completing course work or training at the post-graduate or college level or equivalent, including reading, writing and speaking English and Spanish. Must have a working knowledge sufficient to support reference, collection development, and/or research tools. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of history, politics, and literature of the Caribbean countries and territories.** Applied knowledge of the history, politics, and literature of Caribbean countries and territories to provide reference services, evaluate and develop collections, and/or other professional experience. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the history, politics and literature of Carribbean countries and territories by providing reference and/or research services, evaluating, AND developing collections requiring knowledge of Spanish language collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, politics, and literature of Carribbean countries by providing reference and/or research services requiring knowledge of Spanish language collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, politics, and literature of Carribbean countries and territories in a professional setting or through collegiate or graduate level coursework pertaining to Spanish language-speaking countries. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide reference and research services.** Provided reference and research services by: 1) providing access to and supporting the use of analog and digital collections, past and present, for all users; 2) providing in-person and phone reference services in reading rooms and/or at reference desks; 3) delivering research and reference services through virtual communication technologies; 4) providing user support for specialized collections, consulting senior staff when needed; 5) enhancing access to online resources by developing research guides, collection guides, and finding aids using standard search strategies; and 6) developing knowledge of resources in other institutions to provide informed referrals. Answer to this question is required As a librarian has extensive experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. As a librarian has experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. Has experience providing reference and research services, and in doing so, executed THREE (3) of the above tasks in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and manage collections. Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collections. Monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness; and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collection materials, including Spanish language collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. Reviewed and recommended a variety of sources for acquisition in order to develop collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. In a professional or academic environment, reviewed a variety of sources for possible acquisition in order to develop collection materials. In a professional or academic environment, monitored or assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials and used standard methods, techniques, concepts, and principles to perform acquisitions assignments. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to engage and perform outreach activities. Engaged and performed outreach activities by: 1) engaging with current and prospective researchers and users; 2) collaborating with others to develop, promote, facilitate, present, and evaluate programs to meet the expressed and anticipated needs of researchers and other user communities; 3) representing the organization at workshops, conferences, seminars, or meetings in librarianship and other relevant fields for the purpose of professional development; and 4) assisting in developing content for traditional print outlets and social media platforms. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely performed ALL of the above duties. As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely performed THREE (3) of the above duties. As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely performed TWO (2) of the above duties. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Utilized integrated library systems and/or web scale discovery services and other technologies sufficient to carry out library or research functions; deliver customer services; and improve the efficiency of the work. This included: (1) searching, filtering, extracting, and merging information from library catalogs, databases, and data sources; (2) managing information using collaborative online tools; (3) disseminating and providing access to information; (4) designing, creating, populating, and maintaining tools for managing quantitative and qualitative information as well as digital scholarship tools; (5) creating subject guides; and (6) aggregating and presenting information to respond to user needs. Answer to this question is required Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including at least FIVE of the above to execute a broad range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including FOUR of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including THREE of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing . Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products such as: 1) correspondence relating to reference and research inquiries; 2) subject guides and finding aids; 3) reports, such as usage reports; 4) collection evaluations; 5) presentations; 6) social media posts; and 7) professional publications. Answer to this question is required ndependently, with minimal supervision, or collaboratively, researched, analyzed, and wrote AT LEAST FIVE of the above documents. Independently, with minimal supervision, or collaboratively, researched, analyzed, and wrote FOUR of the above documents. Independently, with minimal supervision, or collaboratively, wrote THREE of the above documents. None of the Above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).