Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates Completed performance appraisals for subordinates Documented employee performance Selected employees for promotion Interviewed job applicants Approved/denied leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 3 Select the duties and responsibilities that you performed in a supervisory or leader position. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Established expectations and clear direction to meet goals and objectives of on-going work for a group of employees. Motivated and engaged employees through effective communication. Provides day-to-day direction to team members and set daily objectives for work unit based on established priorities and time frames. Determined activities to be performed and assigned tasks to accomplish intended outcome and timeline. Provided oversight for the project and related activities including quality assurance and safety. Observed and assessed employee’s work; provided feedback; planned for and supported employees in career development opportunities. Recommended and requested materials, equipment, and related resources required to meet project demands. Established a culture of safety for employees and ensured that work processes were free from safety and health hazards; that employees are properly trained; and that programs were in place to ensure safety. None of the above. 4 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who maintain plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R building systems. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform these building tasks. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I led employees by overseeing tasks assigned by the supervisor to make sure they were performed correctly. I supervised employees by assigning work and managing their performance. 5 Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous service requests to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 As an essential employee, are you willing to report to work during emergencies and inclement weather situations? And to work holidays and weekends on a regular and recurring basis subject to management's discretion? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you hold a current and valid Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) certification by an EPA-Approved Technician’s Certification Program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining plumbing/piping systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of plumbing/piping systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with maintaining plumbing/piping systems under direct supervision from others. I have independently maintained plumbing/piping systems. I have trained others on the procedures for performing plumbing/piping work. None of the above. 9 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining mechanical building systems such as HVAC and&nbsp;plumbing? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical building systems. I have completed coursework related to mechanical building systems but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical building systems by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical building systems. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical building systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical building systems by troubleshooting HVAC or plumbing equipment. 10 Which mechanical reference materials have you read and interpreted to maintain building systems? Answer to this question is required Schematics, diagrams or technical drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Data plates Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 11 Have you done construction work in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which components have you maintained or replaced? Answer to this question is required Steam Distribution Systems Heating Hot Water Systems Sprinkler Systems Chilled water lines None of the above 14 Have you done maintenance work in a historic building? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 15 Have you maintained mechanical systems in commercial or office buildings larger than 500,000 square feet? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 16 How have you used building automation systems? Answer to this question is required Navigated the system to review information Adjusted parameters or `set points` Tuned Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) loops Installed new sensors Trending data in the system Installing alarm points Developed schedules for equipment None of the above 17 How have you used a computer at work? Answer to this question is required To research specifications or equipment To track my time and attendance To track inventory of tools or supplies To create or update work orders To develop work plans To develop project estimates To operate building automation systems None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.