Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 14 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which statement that best describes your highest level of experience in using Enterprise Resource Programming (ERP) and forecasting accounting systems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience in your ability to communicate effectively in writing in order to obtain information and convey results in budget and finance? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following automated systems are you proficient with?&nbsp; Proficient means that you understand and utilize a major part of the system functionality on a regular basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required General ledger Grants module Purchasing Enterprise Resource Programming (ERP) Smartsheet Concur CRM (Customer Relationship Management) PeopleSoft None of the above. 5 Which of the following types of revenue deposits have you processed for an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have processed contributions. I have processed program incomes. I have processed financial gifts. I have processed gifts in-kind. None of the above. 6 Which of the following methods have you used to process deposits for an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have processed deposits by check. I have processed deposits by wire transfer. I have processed deposits by stock transfer. I have processed deposits by internal transactions. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your specific experience, education, or training that demonstrates your skill in preparing financial and analytical reports for multiple funding sources, to include federal appropriations, donations/contributions, commercial revenue, and grant funding? Answer to this question is required I have personally developed and implemented financial management processes and analytical reports to include budget projections, reconciliation of accounts, tracking expenses and obligations and revenue for a broad range of funding sources. I have experience implementing already established financial management processes and analytical reports to include budget projections, reconciliation of accounts, tracking expenses and obligations and revenue for a broad range of funding sources. I have experience using financial management processes and analytical reports to include budget projections, reconciliation of accounts, tracking expenses and obligations and revenue for a broad range of funding sources. I have experience generating reports in order to reconcile accounts and track revenue and expenses. I have no experience preparing financial and analytical reports for multiple funding sources. 8 Which of the following reflects your ability to use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software? Answer to this question is required I have experience using CRM software to manage relationships with customers in the cultural sector, determining data to be collected, analyzing the data, and making recommendations to senior leadership about customer trends, needs, and financial ability. I have experience using CRM software to manage relationships with customers and analyzing existing data collected from customers. I have experience using CRM software to manage relationships with customers. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer at the $50K level or more. I have experience coordinating with central accounting office to ensure new procedures rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submissions to central contracting office. I have experience providing procurement briefings to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. 10 Which statement best describes your highest knowledge level of procurement procedures and ability to approve travel authorization vouchers and purchase orders up to $50,000? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 12 What is your experience in overseeing a Federal procurement program, including travel, purchase cards, accountable property, and purchasing of goods and services? Answer to this question is required I have experience in overall management, coordination and process of procurement and contract activities for a large organization; has delegated procurement authority of $50,000 or more. I have experience that demonstrates substantial knowledge of procurement and contract activities for an organization; has delegated procurement authority of $25,000 or more. I have a good working knowledge of procurement or contract through involvement in one or more specialized functions associated directly with the contract processes; has delegated procurement authority of $10,000 or more. I have no experience overseeing a Federal procurement program. 13 Which of the following describes your experience independently performing the following duties? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and implementing accounting systems. I have experience developing organizational and regulatory requirements for improvements to accounting policies, systems, processes, methods, and procedures. I have experience applying organizational and regulatory requirements in order to make improvements to accounting policies, systems, processes, methods, and procedures. I have experience operating accounting systems. I have experience interpreting financial management data, records, and reports. I have experience examining financial management data, records, and reports. I have experience analyzing financial management data, records, and reports. I have experience inspecting accounting systems. I have experience applying organizational and regulatory requirements in order to make recommendations for improvements to accounting policies, systems, processes, methods, and procedures. None of the above. 14 Which of the following do you have experience working with while you were a member of a project team charged with responsibility for a financial-related project? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed a financial scope of work statement explaining procedural and specific delivery requirements Performed as a Project/Program Manager Performed as a Project Team Leader Integrated and coordinated the work of team members Managed effective use of project resources Performed as a Project Team Member Provided technical assistance and support Provided input regarding development/enhancements to a financial system None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your proficiency in designing, and recommending improvements to financial and systems development policies? Answer to this question is required Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing this task or I have trained or instructed others so that they can perform this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations, I did require assistance or review by a supervisor or a senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, but with close review and assistance from either a supervisor or a senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience with financial management systems performing tasks such as developing financial management system requirements, developing or conducting user training, managing data conversion of setup or transaction data, etc.? Answer to this question is required Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing this task or I have trained or instructed others so that they can perform this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations; I did require assistance or review by a supervisor or a senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, but with close review and assistance from either a supervisor or a senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 17 What is your experience advising senior management on audit status and recommendations for corrective actions and oversight to ensure compliance? Answer to this question is required Based on my extensive knowledge of budget and procurement processes, I have recommended corrective actions to audit issues and maintained oversight to ensure compliance. I was informed of corrective actions on audit issues and worked independently to ensure compliance with newly established procedures. I have knowledge of this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have no experience advising senior management on audit status and recommendations. 18 With which of the following do you have experience communicating orally with senior management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating orally with senior management to make proposals. I have experience communicating orally with senior management to present new strategies. I have experience communicating orally with senior management to negotiate and solve problems. I have experience communicating orally with senior management to promote organizational/company interests and to obtain consensus. I do not have experience communicating orally with senior management. 19 Do you have experience building financial models to track and monitor business performance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which of the following statements apply to the financial management duties you have performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conduct audits Evaluate, tests and monitors the operations of the core financial system to assure its continued compliance with all applicable requirements Analyze fiscal data to respond to inquiries Assist in development of guidance on implementing financial management procedures Process payments in an automated financial system Monitor and track obligations and expenditures for an assigned program or project None of the above. 21 Which of the following Federal regulations and guidelines do you have knowledge of? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Generally Accepted Accounting/Auditing Principles and Standards. United States Standard General Ledger. General Accountability Office Standards. Federal Acquisition Regulations. Office of Management and Budget Circular A-11. Appropriations Law. None of the above. 22 Which of the statement best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 23 Which of the following statements describe your experience performing the following financial system technical functions in work unit or team assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed accounting system requirements Lead a quality assurance test of critical system components Developed user guides and training materials Lead a project team when problems and issues arise subsequent to deployment Supported a project team when problems and issues arise subsequent to deployment Reviewed and analyzed user guides and training materials Participated in quality assurance testing of critical system components Reviewed and analyzed accounting system requirements Assisted with user guides and training materials Assisted with accounting system requirements Assisted with quality assurance testing of critical system components None of the above 24 Which of the following describes your experience preparing a museum or organization&rsquo;s budgets of $100 million+? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing a museum or organization’s budgets of $100 million+. I have provided guidance to non-financial staff on the development of a museum or organization’s budgets of $100 million+. I have provided analyses of the impacts of budget cuts or reductions to a museum or organization’s budgets for management review of $100 million+. I have tracked a museum or an organization’s spending and provided updates to non-financial staff on the status of funds throughout a budget cycle of $100 million+. I have completed cost/benefit analyses for management review in the development and approval of a museum or organization’s budgets of $100 million+. I have provided guidance to other financial staff on the development and tracking of a museum or organization’s budgets of $100 million+ and reviewed their work for accuracy. I have no experience preparing a museum or organization’s budgets. 25 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience in your ability to communicate effectively in writing in order to obtain information and convey results? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 26 Which of the following describes your experience interacting with various groups and individuals? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise daily. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. None of the above apply. 27 Which of the following have you performed as it relates to personnel supervision? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have recruited new employees. I have interviewed and/or selected new employees. I have trained employees. I have supervised and/or managed employees. I have evaluated the performance of employees. I have made promotion decisions about employees. I have not had any personnel supervision experience. 28 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 29 Which of the following written products have you developed and authored as a regular part of your job? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required Reports, memorandums, and correspondence for the signature of key agency/company officials Formal presentations and briefing materials targeting a diverse audience Correspondence/reports that required analysis/consolidation of input from a variety of sources Guidelines or procedural instructions for new program, procedures, or regulations Presentations for conferences, seminars, or similar types of meetings Business cases None of the above 30 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to the preparation of department or unit budget justifications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared written budget justifications to support department-level budget requests for review by senior financial staff. I have edited or reviewed written budget justifications prepared by subordinate staff or others. I have prepared written operating procedures related to the development of departmental budget justifications for use by others. I have completed training on the preparation of written budget justifications. I have no experience preparing department or unit budget justifications. 31 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully (in projects) led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.