Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 2 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to performance. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of performance problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of poor performance. As a technical expert in performance, I have served as an instructor and designed course materials. I am considered a technical expert as an agency advisor on performance related issues. None of the above 3 From the following list, select those that represent your experience in identifying and resolving issues. Answer to this question is required Work closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitate the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepare analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Frequently review and recommend improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Serve on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 4 Please select the type(s) of written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources (HR) environment: Answer to this question is required I have written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences on HR issues. I have written products to explain complex, controversial HR agency policies or programs. I have written agency-wide HR policy and procedural materials for dissemination to headquarters, field or bureau level components. I have issued position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations of HR issues. I have written human resource program policies, reports, agency-wide guidelines on Senior Executive Service (SES) issues, and/or drafted proposed legislation on SES issues. I have reviewed written HR material, and suggested improvements, for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. My written products have been recognized as high-quality, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards. None of the above. 5 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.