Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services to complete publishing projects. ** Provided consultation, performed liaison duties, and maintained professional relationships to exchange information, interact collaboratively, and resolve problems to successfully complete publishing projects. This included: 1) planning and coordinating editorial projects, 2) initiating requests for freelancers, 3) assisting with the creation and negotiation of publishing agreements, 4) explaining procedures and techniques, 5) evaluating and assessing the quality of material submitted for publication, and 6) providing counsel to individuals on issues and concerns. Answer to this question is required Served as a principal liaison to the Director of Publishing, established and maintained relationships with other specialists to coordinate and share resources and information to complete publishing projects. In doing so, performed ALL of the above duties. Developed professional publishing contacts, established and maintained cooperative work relationships, and presented and explained information related to the publishing process to groups and persons with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject(s) areas. In doing so, performed FIVE (5) of the above duties. Maintained professional publishing contacts or cooperative work relationships and presented information related to the publishing process to groups and persons with a similar understanding of the subject. In doing so, performed FOUR (4) of the above duties. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to lead a team of excellence effectively. ** Effectively led a team of excellence to accomplish organizational objectives and assigned team tasks. Answer to this question is required Effectively led a team of excellence to achieve desirable results on MULTIPLE publishing projects aligned with the organization's mission. Leadership involved evaluating assignments, suggesting improvements, ensuring team member participation and timely accomplishment of objectives. Effectively led a team of excellence to achieve desirable results on ONE OR TWO publishing projects aligned with the organization's mission. Leadership involved evaluating results, suggesting improvements, ensuring team member participation and timely accomplishment of objectives. Effectively influenced team of excellence to achieve organizational goals. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to prepare materials for publication. ** Organized, wrote, edited and compiled written material for publication in a professional setting (e.g., book publisher, newspaper, magazine). Wrote and edited material for a variety of products (e.g., books, catalogs, promotional material, blog entries) for publication. Assembled, organized, selected, and documented high-resolution scans of archival documents, prints, posters, manuscripts, and three-dimensional objects. Conducted primary and secondary research, obtained and documented permission to cite or reproduce previously published material. Assembled manuscripts and art for submission to designers, co-publishers, and typesetters. Documented permissions, citations, captions, and credits. Answer to this question is required As a writer/editor, worked on a WIDE range of COMPLEX materials (e.g., books with multiple authors, publications with 100 illustrations, illustrated catalogs) in a professional PUBLICATIONS setting (e.g., book publisher, newspaper, magazine). As a writer/editor, worked on a WIDE range of materials (e.g., books, catalogs, promotional materials, blog entries) in in a professional PUBLICATIONS setting (e.g., book publisher, newspaper, magazine). As a writer and/or editor, worked on a range of materials (e.g., articles, newsletters) in a professional setting (e.g., trade association, government communications department/office). None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to apply editorial style guidelines. Applied style guidelines from authoritative sources (e.g., Chicago Manual of Style, Associated Press, Modern Language Association, GPO style) to ensure consistency across publications and adherence to professional standards. Answer to this question is required As an editor in a professional publication setting, routinely reviewed and corrected COMPLEX BOOK manuscripts (multiple chapters, total word count exceeding 50,000 words) for consistency in style, formatting, and citation, according to the Chicago Manual of Style. As an editor in a professional publication setting, routinely reviewed and corrected BOOK manuscripts for consistency in style, formatting, and citation, according to the Chicago Manual of Style. As an editor in a professional publication setting, routinely reviewed and corrected BOOK manuscripts for consistency in style, formatting, and citation, according to authoritative sources (e.g., Chicago Manual of Style, Associated Press, Modern Language Association, or GPO style). None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) books, 2) catalogs, 3) newsletters, 4) promotional materials, and 5) articles, adhering to rules of spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style. This includes tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the target audience. Answer to this question is required Wrote a variety of publications, including ALL of the above in a professional publications and production setting. Consistently met publication deadlines. Systematically ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required editing by supervisors. Wrote a variety of publications, including FOUR (4) of the above in a professional publications and production setting. Consistently met publication deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required substantial editing by supervisors. Wrote a variety of publications including THREE (3) of the above in a professional publications or production setting. Met assignment deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required substantial editing by supervisors. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to use information technology to perform writing duties. Used commercial and/or proprietary computer software applications and tools to convey information to varied audiences in a clear, cogent, and well-organized manner. Software applications and tools included: 1) word processing software (e.g., MS Word,); 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 3) databases (e.g., Access, Filemaker); 4) desktop publishing software (e.g., Adobe InDesign, Photoshop); 5) presentation packages (e.g., PowerPoint); and /or 6) Web publishing software (e.g., Word Press) to produce professional-level final products that included text, tables, and graphics. Answer to this question is required As an editor in a professional research setting, have extensive experience using various software applications and tools including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above to produce a wide range of final products written using word-processing, spreadsheet, and/or database software and including text, tables, and graphics. As an editor in a professional research setting, have substantial experience using various software applications and tools including FOUR (4) of the above to produce final products written using word-processing, spreadsheet, and/or database software and including text, tables, and graphics. As an editor in a professional research setting, have substantial experience using various software applications and tools including THREE (3) of the above to produce final products written using word-processing, spreadsheet, and/or database software and including text, tables, and graphics. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).