Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 1 : I have experience in overseeing and coordinating the work of organizational units directly and indirectly through subordinate supervisors, including assigning work, directing changes to programs and priorities, and evaluating performance against goals; AND &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 2 : I have experience in managing employee performance and growth directly and indirectly through subordinate supervisors, including evaluating employee readiness for successive roles, recognizing accomplishments, providing feedback and development opportunities, and addressing performance/conduct issues; AND &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 3 : I have experience in overseeing implementation of and improvements to recruiting, hiring, training, utilization, and succession readiness of staff; AND &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 1 : I have experience in directing information security and/or privacy programs impacting large organizations; AND &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 2 : I have experience in translating business requirements into business solutions with information technology to include the development, implementation and maintenance of cybersecurity and privacy programs responsive to the organization's mission. Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 I understand that I must provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of this experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required [ERROR rendering field] Yes No 8 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).