Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide program planning and management, evaluation, and oversight that support the goals of the organization.** Provided program management to plan, organize and oversee the work activities and schedules of a program, as well as evaluation. Program management included the following: 1) coordinated with managers and staff, including effective communications or correspondence and support of operations; 2) worked with senior management to develop long-range plans to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs; 3) created engaging, innovative and intelligent book events from first inspiration through final production and completion of those events; 4) developed recommendations and presented proposals for program improvements; 5) effectively communicated&nbsp; evaluation results and planning decisions verbally and in writing to diverse audiences; and 6) established/implemented new initiatives and procedures to enhance and improve programs. Answer to this question is required Independently provided program planning and management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of the program. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Co-managed a program providing program management and oversight. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends, and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Recommended proposals, and assisted with implementing plans to improve program effectiveness. Provided program management for segments of an overall program. With minimal supervision, evaluated programs and operations to identify improved management practices and process improvements to improve program effectiveness. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to conduct organizational or program assessments.** Assessed an organization's design, operational program/activities and workflow to provide guidance on strategic interventions to meet an agency's objectives and/or client requirements. Developed governance and decision making programs, business requirements tracking or other assessment tools.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Led a sub-agency (division-, directorate- or branch-wide) organizational or program assessment to: identify gaps in meeting organizational objectives and propose interventions to align and improve organizational structures within a division or directorate. Led a sub-agency (division-, directorate- or branch-wide) organizational or program assessment to: identify gaps in meeting organizational objectives and propose interventions to align and improve organizational structures within a division or directorate. Played a key role in at least one sub-agency (division-, directorate-, branch-wide) organizational assessment to: identify gaps in meeting organizational objectives and propose interventions to align and improve organizational structures within an organization. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote factual, analytic, and persuasive business documents for diverse audiences and in various formats, including: 1) peer and staff briefings and presentations, 2) strategic or annual planning documents, 3) business and program proposals, 4) standard operating policies and procedures, 5) statements of work, 6) memoranda and background materials, and 7) public and customer materials.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents for an agency or organization’s executive or management decision-making including ALL of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents for an agency or organization including SIX (6) of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents including FIVE (5) of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation and liaison duties. Performed consultation or liaison tasks/duties to exchange information with persons inside and outside an organization. Answer to this question is required Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and outside an organization and established relationships with others to coordinate and share resources and information. Participated in professional association meetings as a representative of the institution/organization. Interacts with advisory groups, representatives from cultural institutions, and national and international organizations. Led a team, taskforce or committee to analyze program management workflow processes and procedures. Coordinated details for special and priority projects. Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and/or outside an organization and maintained relationships with others to coordinate and share resources and information. Participated in professional association meetings as a representative of the institution/organization. Interacts with advisory groups, representatives from cultural institutions, and/or national and international organizations. Served on a team, taskforce or committee to analyze program management workflow processes and procedures. Coordinated details for special and priority projects. Served as a liaison for an organization and maintained relationships with others to coordinate and share resources and information. Coordinated details for special and priority projects. Served on a team, taskforce or committee to analyze program management workflow processes and procedures. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to manage projects and/or programs. Led or played a key role in projects relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities by performing the following tasks: 1) identified the problem, challenge, or opportunity, 2) designed and planned the project, 3) determined and defined project deliverables, 4) planned and organized human and/or budgetary resources, 5) managed project requirements and stakeholder expectations, 6) facilitated discussions to work toward solutions, 7) assessed the impact of project on other agency- or organization-wide activities, and 8) provided project deliverable on time and within budget.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Led SEVERAL projects differing in scope relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in doing so executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in SEVERAL projects relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in doing so executed SIX or SEVEN of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in A SINGLE project relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in doing so executed FOUR or FIVE of the above tasks. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).