Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 GS-5 Choose the response that best describes your education/experience in accordance with the requirements for the GS-5 Computer Engineer position. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree which includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience by my current registration as a professional engineer by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience and have successfully passed the Engineering-In-Training (EIT) examination, or written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Board of Engineering Examiners in the various states, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science including engineering courses specified in Choice 1. I have completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. Grade: 07 1 GS-7 I qualify for the GS-7 Computer Engineer position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required 1 year of graduate-level education Superior Academic Achievement; Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. Superior Academic Achievement; Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum Superior Academic Achievement; Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2years of the curriculum. Superior Academic Achievement; Membership in a national scholastic honor society Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: performing junior level computer engineering tasks such as performing developmental engineering work in the design, analysis, testing, and evaluation of computer hardware systems and/or related components. A combination of education and experience. None of the above. Grade: 09 1 GS-9 I qualify for the Computer Engineer position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required Education: Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as Computer Engineering. Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: performing intermediate level computer engineering tasks such as performing segments of computer engineering projects involving design, analysis, integration, and test of computer/embedded hardware and/or related interfaces. A combination of education and experience. None of the above. Grade: 11 1 GS-11 I qualify for the Computer Engineer position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required Education: Have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: 1. Designing, analyzing, and evaluating computer hardware systems, embedded processors, digital logic circuits, and interface components using established engineering principle 2. Conducting engineering studies involving hardware/software interface issues and system performance optimization. A combination of education and experience. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. 7 Basic Requirements. Choose the response(s) that best describes your education/experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level: Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree which includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience by my current registration as a professional engineer by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience and have successfully passed the Engineering-In-Training (EIT) examination, or written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Board of Engineering Examiners in the various states, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science including engineering courses specified in Choice 1. I have completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).