Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience independently performing the tasks of a material handler, including the storage, delivery, and set up of furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 3 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 4 Do you have experience issuing and receiving goods and materials in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Have you been responsible for inspecting equipment for damage? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 Have you identified safety issues and concerns? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Do you have experience tracking the status of orders for supplies, equipment, or materials? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 9 Select the actions you have performed when receiving shipments. Answer to this question is required Visually inspected items for damage Counted items to verify quantity Checked shipping label for accurate delivery location Recorded transactions (e.g., receipt date, time) Puts bar codes, tags, and/or identification marks on items None of the above 10 I have independently stacked and moved different materials considering the height, weight and special handling requirements of the material to prevent damage. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which computer applications do you have experience using in order to maintain inventory? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Inventory management systems Work request management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft Power Point Financial Management Systems None of the above 14 Does the Architect of the Capitol employ any member of your family? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed and location if known. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.