Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: (1) Ability to delicately communicate impacts to the House Congressional community in a manner that allows the leadership to gain the support needed for a successful House Moves projects. (2) Practical knowledge of Congressional activities. (3) Experience in the process of preparing long and short-range plans in accordance with broad guidance to establish Member Move Suite Selection rules (Departing Members, Returning Members and New Members). (4) Knowledge of the mission, principles, concepts and methodologies required with managing enterprise synchronization and strategic communications with organizations similar in size, scale and complexity as the AOC operation. (5) Skill in communicating ideas, concepts, methods, analyses, evaluations and recommendations in a lucid, logical and convincing manner, either by oral or written means of communication to management, professional, administrative audiences with equal facility and clarity. No 2 Select the answer that best describes your experience and/or training in the field of congressional activities in order to advise senior leadership on Congressional processes, congressional initiatives and strategy for addressing critical issues. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 Communications Experience: Please describe your experience in developing and executing strategic communications plans and their results. Describe any experience working with the Congress and congressional staff.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. Answer to this question is required Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals. None of the above. 5 Choose&nbsp;the statement that best describes your highest level of experience setting priorities and acquiring, organizing, and leveraging available resources to ensure timely delivery of high quality services and products for an organization. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 6 Have you presented storage, space planning and space management plans and proposals to congressional committees and members and/or higher level management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Choose&nbsp;the statement that best describes your highest level of experience developing and executing plans to accomplish strategic goals and relevant organizational objectives, including risk management, setting priorities and acquiring, organizing, and leveraging available resources to ensure timely delivery of high quality services and products. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, may be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 8 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 8.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.