Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal government service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience:&nbsp; &nbsp;Serving as a liaison among internal and external stakeholders to coordinate high-profile security activities;&nbsp;&nbsp;Coordinating and executing security plans for high-visibility and high-risk environments involving senior officials and activities on a local, state or federal level;&nbsp; and&nbsp; Assisting with the security preparations and emergency response integration to mitigate risk and ensure operational effectiveness.&nbsp; 2 Please describe your experience working with internal and external stakeholders/clients with competing motivations or priorities. What strategies, skills and/or tactics did you use to allow your programs or projects to move forward? Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your experience with briefing senior government officials. Discuss both your personal experience, as well as your experience preparing leadership with written and oral materials for presentation to outside groups. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your approach to providing programs on a schedule and managing to deadlines. Include examples of programs or projects in which you had constraints on resources and/or time, presenting challenges to meeting required dates. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Select the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above. 6 Select the types of events that you have managed. Please select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Business meetings Conferences and other professional events Public policy seminars or programs Ceremonies for special occasions Large events involving catering or other outside vendors Events involving elected officials None of the above 7 Select the responses that demonstrate the tasks you performed to plan, organize and execute events. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Scheduled events. Coordinated logistics and other requirements. Managed vendor services for catering or other needs. Led planning and coordination of events. Supervised events management staff Performed post-event evaluations Established or modified events management polices or SOPs. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience maintaining the security and integrity of collected data and prevent unauthorized access or disclosure? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience analyzing and resolving difficult and complex security problems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you overseen contractor work to ensure it met specifications (e.g., system commissioning, project work)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you identified poor performing or non-performing contractors and initiated actions to address performance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.