Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 This position requires physical exertion. Do you have the ability to apply physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 100 pounds or less? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to perform the duties of the Animal Keeper without more than normal supervision? Related abilities to includes but not limited to: observing, handling, controlling, feeding, and providing care for animals; cleaning enclosures, service area and adjacent public areas; and inspecting stored items, ensuring rotation, and removing outdated/spoiled food. Your ability must be detailed in your resume to receive credit. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience caring for animals? Answer to this question is required I have experience caring for wild or exotic animals in an AZA-accredited zoo, aquarium, or facility. I have experience caring for wild or exotic animals in a non-accredited zoological setting. I have experience caring for domestic animals in an AZA-accredited zoo, aquarium, or facility. I have experience caring for wild or exotic animals in a rehabilitative or similar setting. I have experience caring for domestic animals in a barn or herd setting. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience with animal enrichment and training? Answer to this question is required I have experience researching and designing enrichment, developing enrichment plans, submitting proposals, installing, preparing and/or facilitating the safe introduction of new enrichment items and completing an enrichment evaluation or behavioral study for wild or exotic animals. I have experience developing enrichment plans and installing, preparing and/or facilitating the safe introduction of new enrichment items for wild or exotic animals. I have experience following enrichment plans prepared by others and providing enrichment for wild or exotic animals. I have prepared enrichment items for wild or exotic animals. None of the above. 5 Please identify your animal training experience with wild and exotic animals. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently developed and executed training plans for wild or exotic animals. I have trained and established new behaviors from existing training plans for veterinary care for wild or exotic animals. I have trained and established new behaviors from existing training plans for routine husbandry for wild or exotic animals. I have maintained established training behaviors for wild or exotic animals. I have observed training programs for wild or exotic animals. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting animal demonstrations, keeper talks, and behind the scenes tours? Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting animal demonstrations, keeper talks, and behind the scenes tours in an AZA-accredited zoo, aquarium, or facility. I have experience supporting animal demonstrations, keeper talks, and behind the scenes tours in an AZA-accredited zoo, aquarium, or facility. I have experience conducting talks or tours in another setting. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring animal behavior for behavioral, social, or medical reasons? Answer to this question is required I have experience monitoring the behavior of wild or exotic wild animals in an AZA-accredited zoo, aquarium, or facility. I have experience monitoring the behavior of wild or exotic animals in a non-accredited zoological setting. I have experience monitoring the behavior of animals in a barn or herd setting. I have experience monitoring the behavior of animals in a laboratory or research setting. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining and analyzing animal records data ? Answer to this question is required I have experience utilizing ZIMS or other zoological records systems to maintain and analyze exotic animal records, I have experience utilizing Excel or other spreadsheet applications to maintain and analyze exotic animal records. I have experience utilizing Excel or other spreadsheet applications to maintain and analyze other data. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with animal capture and restraint? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed and executed capture and restraint plans for wild or exotic animals. I have assisted in development and execution of capture and restraint plans for wild or exotic animals. I have participated in the capture and restraint for wild or exotic animals. I have participated in the capture and restraint of domestic livestock. I have participated in the capture and restraint of domestic animals. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with social housing and propagation? Answer to this question is required I have experience providing daily husbandry to domestic and wild or exotic animals. I have experience providing daily husbandry to breeding pairs or groups of domestic and wild or exotic animals. I have experience conducting animal introductions involving domestic and wild or exotic animals. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.