Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Factor Manager must be able to manage the factory's workload while maintaining the efficiency level and meeting the goals of management. &nbsp; &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have adjusted manpower requirements and workload of staff or inmates which resulted in exceeding the efficiency level established for the factory; and/or I have analyzed the production flow and made adjustments that increased productivity and reduced dis-assembly costs; and/or I have reviewed financial performance reports (i.e., cost, sales, overhead, productively) and made adjustments which resulted in exceeding the factory goals established by management/corporation; and/or I have made industrial operation projections for the fiscal period which were adopted by management. I have reviewed business plans and met established objectives for fiscal period; and/or I have made adjustments for a given product line or department to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements; and/or I have conducted work measurement study to resolve production issue. I have monitored and reviewed inmate payroll and work hours using the inmate pay system or other automated payroll system; and/or I have monitored workload to determine if production goals within a department were being met; and/or I have determined sufficient manpower resources existed for a department. None of the above. 3 The Factor Manager must be able to analyze financial, cost and manufacturing data to derive solutions that will impact short and long-range goals of the factory.&nbsp; &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed established manufacturing schedule by ensuring materials were available and machinery was operable; and/or I have reviewed equipment/work center performance and reported variances; and/or I have measured performance against workcenter budget to track costs. I have used time studies to optimize capacities, define costs and identify resource requirements within a department/work center; and/or I have analyzed work center scheduling and adjusted for variances; and/or I have tracked overhead budget and adjusted as needed (i.e., eliminated/granted overtime, increased supplies, revamped production process/practices). I have developed work measurement program for entire factory/plant based on time studies; and/or I have performed analysis to determine cost compliance and efficiency of operations and took corrective action where needed; and/or I have developed strategies to reduce cost, maximize efficiency or minimize variance by realigning equipment or resources. None of the above. 4 The Factor Manager must interact with representatives from government agencies, private entities, Central Office, institution management, peers, subordinates, staff, and inmates.&nbsp; &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have intermittingly overseen civilian staff members or inmate workers in an industrial operation; and/or I have planned and coordinated workgroups, committee, or other formal meetings; and/or I have handled grievances of employees; and/or I have resolved scheduling issues with customers; and/or I have planned, coordinated, and directed activities of subordinates. I have participated in negotiating yearly operating plans with corporate management; and/or I have prepared agreements with customers and vendors; and/or I have reported to corporate management on financial performance; and/or I have identified employee performance issues/deficiencies and established a plan to correct/improve performance and monitored results. I have participated in and provided recommendations during meetings, (i.e., the weekly production meeting, etc.); and/or I have discussed routine manufacturing issues with workgroups; and/or I have provided daily safety briefings. None of the above. 5 The Factor Manager is responsible for the overall operations of the factory, including performing the full range of supervisory duties.&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have overseen the activities of correctional workers week or equivalent event; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have conducted performance counseling sessions with subordinate employees; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have overseen an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).