Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 I have read the education requirement(s) listed for this vacancy and upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Ability to apply analytical methods and techniques to identify and resolve financial issues.** Identified, considered, and resolved a variety of complex financial and/or budget-related questions and problems. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed a variety of complex financial and/or budget-related issues, programs, policies and procedures. Recommendations were monitored by the supervisor. Independently or with minimal supervision, analyzed several different components of financial and/or budget-related issues, programs and/or policies. Recommendations were reviewed by the supervisor. With supervision, analyzed one or more component(s) of financial and/or budget-related issues, programs, and/or policies. Recommendations were reviewed by the supervisor. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge and application of general accounting principles, practices and techniques.** Applied knowledge of accounting principles, Federal laws, practices and techniques by performing the following tasks in an agency or organization: 1) identified and reconciled routine accounting transactions and/or problems; 2) prepared and reviewed routine financial reports and processed various financial transactions; 3) proposed and/or processed estimates of assets, liabilities, revenue and/or expenses in conformance with legal and regulatory guidelines; 4) compiled, consolidated and summarized financial data; and 5) examined and validated invoices, purchase orders, contracts, travels orders, and/or other claims against budgeted/obligated/funds. Answer to this question is required Regularly performed ALL of the above accounting related tasks in an organization either independently or under the general supervision of a higher level accountant. Regularly performed FOUR (4) of the above accounting related tasks in an organization either independently or under the general supervision of a higher level accountant. Regularly performed THREE (3) of the above accounting related tasks in an organization either independently or under the general supervision of a higher level accountant. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to use computer systems and software applications for financial analysis, reconciliation and reporting.** Utilized technology to support financial management operations including: 1) word processing (e.g., Word); 2) electronic mail calendar; (e.g., Outlook); 3) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 4) financial reporting tools (e.g., Crystal Reports, Tableau, SQL); and 5) financial management systems (e.g., Momentum). Answer to this question is required Used ALL of the above financial management systems and software applications to analyze raw data from accounting tables or summarize the data. Developed reports to identify variances and relationships. Prepared reports for operations and updated or prepared spreadsheets or tables from reports. Used FOUR (4) of the above financial management systems and software applications. Analyzed computer generated reports to identify variances. Prepared reports for day-to-day operations, and updated or prepared spreadsheets or tables from those reports. Used THREE (3) of the above financial management systems and software applications. Analyzed computer generated reports to identify variances. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, concise, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) reconciliation reports, 2) financial statements and notes, 3) memos, and 4) accounting guidance. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared at least THREE (3) of the above. Independently prepared ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above. Assisted in the preparation of at least ONE (1) of the above. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).