Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Discipline Hearing Administrator conducts inmate discipline hearings program oversight, including directing and explaining procedures and findings to Discipline Hearing Officers. He/she trains correctional staff in the Bureau&rsquo;s inmate discipline process, deals with correctional staff, managers, and executive staff to resolve problems, exchanges information, and defends controversial decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led/chaired Unit Discipline Committee hearings; and/or I have provided inmate discipline training for a national audience; and/or I have chaired an association board hearing to determine whether a member should be fined; and/or I have conducted complex SIS investigation; and/or I have facilitated a national training conference. I have presided as Discipline Hearing Officer (chairman) over a committee conducting hearings; and/or I have administered a program which involved conducting administrative fact-finding hearings; and/or I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management regarding controversial issues and implemented new ideas and concepts; and/or I have represented agency at a briefing/meeting with Members of Congress or their staff. I have conducted Special Emphasis Program meetings; and/or I have facilitated an association’s board meeting; and/or I have directed a panel while interviewing applicants; and/or I have interviewed employees while investigating an incident; and/or I have facilitated an operational review meeting. None of the above. 5 The Discipline Hearing Administrator oversees a DHO program which ensures the preparation of hearing documentation which includes a summary of the charges, evidence, and testimony, details the facts relied upon to support the finding, and ensures there is an explanation as to why the sanctions were imposed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a detailed memo recommending a change in procedure; and/or I have written a recommendation to the Probation Office for an inmate’s relocation upon release; and/or I have written a justification to support a request for additional resources; and/or I have written an SIS report recommending an inmate be transferred or made a separatee. I have prepared/written investigative reports; and/or I have written a legal brief; and/or I have written inmate progress reports for the court or parole board; and/or I have written a new institution supplement describing technical procedures; and/or I have written a record of decision and disposition of a hearing; and/or I have written an agency response for a third-party hearing. I have prepared/written case analyses; and/or I have developed policies; and/or I have provided technical direction through memorandums to all institutions; and/or I have provided written reports concerning the overall operation of the Discipline Hearing Officer program to include training; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared technical, detailed or sensitive correspondence to/for individuals inside and outside the organization. None of the above. 6 The Discipline Hearing Administrator, in order to assess evidence and charges and ensure that procedural requirements are adhered to in the inmate discipline process, must interpret and apply agency and institution policy, federal regulations, case law and other precedent decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written responses to Central Office Administrative Remedy Appeals, Regional Administrative Remedy Appeals or Requests for Administrative Remedy for signature by the Regional Director or Warden; and/or I have determined action steps by researching policy and regulations to identify requirements applicable to an unusual case; and/or I have researched regulations to identify best corrective action for resolution of procedural error; and/or I have researched and applied judicial rulings governing the factual basis of the cases to be decided. I have prepared written responses to Inmate Requests to staff (cop-outs); and/or I have referred to policy and determined actions required based on case assessment; and/or I have designed procedures to comply with new or revised national policy; and/or I have made recommendation for furlough request; and/or I have conducted reviews of inmates placed in disciplinary segregation. I have investigated and drafted responses to Administrative Remedy requests at the local, regional or Central Office level; and/or I have reviewed investigative reports to determine if a violation was committed; and/or I have imposed a penalty in accordance with 28 CFR 541; and/or I have ensured procedural requirements were followed in a UDC hearing. None of the above. 7 The Discipline Hearing Administrator analyzes a variety of information and supplemental information from a multitude of sources. He/she must discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analyses of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities; and/or I have maintained correspondence files as a reference point for completing similar assignments. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made training recommendations; and/or I have used SENTRY or other automated system to retrieve statistical data to include in a proposal to increase funding or make procedural change(s); and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or procedures and recommended changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and presentations for future research or implementation. I have managed the operations of a department; and/or I have performed financial management duties as a Correctional Services cost center manager; and/or I have participated in a program review or other external audit; and/or I have designed procedures to comply with new or revised national policy. None of the above. 8 The Discipline Hearing Administrator must have knowledge of correctional institution operations, procedures, programs and terminology sufficient to understand evidence and testimony, consider and assesses the context and significance of incidents, and determine the appropriateness of sanctions. In reaching decisions, he/she must consider Bureau of Prisons philosophy and objectives of correctional treatment, security and control of inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied theory and policy in deciding inmate program assignments or resolving conflicts; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have identified discipline-related issues that required training staff for resolution; and/or I have prepared and coordinated a mock exercise for training purposes; and/or I have participated on an After-Action Committee following a disturbance. I have coordinated the A&O program at an institution; and/or I have written an institution supplement to the unit management manual; and/or I have provided institutional operational support as an institution or administrative duty officer. I have assessed and applied sanctions commensurate with the security level and mission of the institution in light of the treatment objectives of the inmate; and/or I have evaluated evidence and information to identify patterns of behavior among certain inmate groups to thwart one group from amassing control or undue influence over other groups or program areas; and/or I have interpreted evidence and testimony via the discipline procedures or other interview techniques to identify patterns of critical weaknesses and made recommendations for internal controls to further manage the inmate population and maintain institution security; and/or I have structured procedures for the identification of significant evidence in determining if current programs adequately addressed and discouraged continued disruptive behavior by a specifically identified group of the inmate population. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).