Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 5 Which one of the following best describes the level of your knowledge of Natural Science collections management practices and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate degree related to natural science including courses orientated towards biology, geology or paleontology collections OR equivalent experience applying related collections management techniques for a scientific collection. I have a graduate degree related to natural science including courses orientated towards biology, geology or paleontology collections OR equivalent experience applying related collections management and research techniques for a scientific collection. I have experience working as a museum specialist or equivalent performing collections management, natural history, and specimen curation. I have experience working as a museum technician or equivalent performing such activities as plant or animal specimen preparation and cataloging. None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of museum registration methods and collections management practices? Answer to this question is required I have performed administrative work associated with outgoing and incoming loans, special exhibitions, or permanent installations of objects, and related cataloguing information. I have been trained with outgoing and incoming loans, special exhibitions, or permanent installations of objects, and related cataloguing information. I have no direct experience or training with museum registration methods and collections management practices. I have completed 4 years of academic studies in studio art, art history, humanities, or museum studies that exposed me to museum registration methods and collections management practices. I have no experience with museum registration methods and collections management practices. I have an interest in learning. 7 Which of the following describes your experience preparing and caring for collections items within a natural science museum? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with natural science collections in accordance with a museum's collections management policy. I have briefed the manager about related ethical, legal and liability concerns for museum collections. I have implemented the museum collections' preservation guidelines. I have handled museums items using professional object care standards. I have stored museum items using professional object storage standards. I have packed and unpacked museum collections items using professional standards. I have monitored appropriate environmental temperature and relative humidity conditions for the management of collections. I have facilitated access and use of natural science collections for research and/or exhibition. I have updated and entered records in a museum database related to natural history specimens. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your training or experience with legal and ethical issues relating to or natural history collections?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience in applying legal regulations and ethical standards to activities and transactions of acquisition, holding, transporting and disposition of natural history collections. I have training in applying legal regulations and ethical standards to activities and transactions of acquisition, holding, transporting and disposition of natural history collections. I have no experience with legal and ethical issues relating to natural history collections. I have not had training in legal or ethical issues relating to natural history collections. 9 Which of the following describes your experience managing functions related to museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed collections information systems such as KE EMu or TMS. I have managed environmental monitoring systems. I have managed integrated pest management. I have managed security for collections storage and exhibits. I have managed installation and de-installation of museum exhibits. I have managed registration processes and procedures. I have managed the provision of access to and the support of researchers and other users of collections. I have participated in emergency planning for museum collections or been a part of a museum emergency response team. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of biology and/or the natural sciences and physical care of natural history specimens? (Select only on answer) Answer to this question is required I have obtained my knowledge of biology and/or the natural sciences through experience working in the science department of a library. I have experience physically caring for collections in a natural history environment. I have taken science courses including biology and/or other natural sciences. I have obtained a degree in biology and/or other natural sciences. None of the above 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in working with natural and/or physical science collections? Answer to this question is required I have worked with natural and/or physical science collections but not in a library. I have worked in a library but not with natural and/or physical science collections. I have worked in a library or educational institution that included natural and/or physical science collections. I have worked primarily with library collections in natural and/or physical science subject areas. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.