Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in at least 7 of the following: (1)&nbsp;Experience reviewing the quality of all Fire Protection engineering design and construction features; developing Fire Protection designs, reports, plans, specifications, and other engineering products for construction services. (2) Serving as a subject matter expert for providing technical advice and guidance in the field of fire protection engineering to upper levels of management, engineers, and other personnel. (3) &nbsp;Managing in the incorporation of fire protection engineering practices in all phases of design and construction documentation and the implementation for code adherence. (4) Applying numerous fire protection codes, standards, and building codes to various types of facilities. (i.e., business, childcare, industrial, assembly and historic). (5) Ensuring the incorporation of adequate fire protection and life safety requirements are in all aspects of facility and construction management. (6) Conduct fire safety surveys and testing for various types of buildings. (i.e., business, childcare, industrial, assembly and historic). (7) Develop risk assessments in accordance with the Federal Fire Safety Act. (8) Review drawings and specifications for building construction and renovation to ensure compliance with current standards for fire protection and life safety. 3 Which Fire Protection systems have you designed? Answer to this question is required Residential sprinkler systems High-rise sprinkler systems Fire alarm and smoke detection systems Specialty suppression systems None of the above 4 Which smoke control systems have you designed, installed or tested? Answer to this question is required HVAC duct type smoke detectors and the associated HVAC shut down control Smoke evacuation systems found in Atria or specialized locations Stairwell pressurization systems Systems that pressurize zones adjacent to the zones where fire is reported and create a negative pressure in reference to adjoining zones in the zone of fire origin (smoke control). Computer modeling to assist in the design of smoke control systems None of the above 5 Have you been designated to gather information and interpret policies, codes, and standards on fire protection and life safety issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 6 Which safety systems have you witnessed final acceptance testing for construction projects? Answer to this question is required Fire alarm systems Fire alarm system interfaces with other systems (e.g., HVAC, security, etc.) Water-based fire extinguishing systems Fire pumps Standpipe and fire department hose connection systems Non-water-based fire extinguishing systems Smoke management systems Emergency power systems Fire doors and windows Emergency lighting and exit lighting Exit signage None of the above 7 Which codes have you independently used for design and construction projects? Answer to this question is required International Building Code International Fire Code International Mechanical Code International Performance Code NFPA 101, Life Safety Code NFPA 70, National Electrical Code NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems NFPA 20, Standard for the Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems NFPA 75, Standard for the Protection of Information Technology Equipment None of the above 8 Have you coordinated fire management work with local, state, and federal regulators and agencies on a routine basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience&nbsp;developing , reviewing, and executing plans for fire and life safety systems? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience developing and executing plans for fire and life safety systems. I have education or training related to developing and executing plans for fire and life safety systems, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team supporting the development and execution of plans for fire and life safety systems. I have independently developed and executed plans for fire and life safety systems. I have oversight of personnel responsible for developing and executing plans for fire and life safety systems, and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency, and/or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 10 Please select the responses that reflect your experience reviewing building plans. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Reviewed drawings, sketches, and notes for small building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for major building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for new building constructions. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for new high-rise buildings. I do not have this type of experience. 11 For which audiences have you written professional documents (e.g., reports, white papers)? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors Subordinates External Clients Oversight Committees None of the above 12 Please select the statement(s) that reflect your experience with fire protection and life safety surveys. Answer to this question is required I have created my own support materials for oral presentations, including computer aided presentations, handouts, training booklets, and other materials necessary for successful communication of ideas. I have developed talking points for meetings or presentations. I have written articles for professional journals that have been published. I have developed presentations for conferences. None of the above. 13 Select all responses that describe your experience representing the interests of a program or function under your direct responsibility. Answer to this question is required Maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies. Led projects that crossed organization or agency boundaries. Served as a team member on projects that are cross organizational or agency boundaries. Represented the organization at inter-agency meetings. Maintained relationships with various federal, state and/or local stakeholders. Ability to provide oversight on operations, testing and maintenance of fire protection systems, and develop working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance. None of the above. 14 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments None of the above 15 Which of the following tasks have you overseen or been directly responsible for regarding the inspection, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems? Answer to this question is required Developed work plans for safely completing repairs or corrective actions. Identified materials for replacing failed components. Developed a means of recording and tracking deficiencies as well as scheduling repairs. None of the above. 16 Which of the following describes your experience conducting fire investigations? Answer to this question is required I have assisted with conducting fire cause and origin investigations in accordance with NFPA 921. I have conducted fire cause and origin investigations in accordance with NFPA 921. I have assisted in investigating root causes of fire or system failures. I have investigated root causes of fire or system failures and made recommendations for corrective action to management. I have led multi-disciplinary investigation teams for root-cause failure analysis of fires or system failures. I do not have experience conducting fire or root-cause failure investigations. 17 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developing working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance? Answer to this question is required Independently provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for various fire protection systems in a multi-building complex. Under supervision, provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for large buildings or a small group of buildings. Assisted in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and gathered data and information for the development of working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 18 Which statements reflect your experience with fire protection and life safety surveys? Answer to this question is required I have performed building fire protection surveys that focused on emergency preparedness and response. I have performed detailed fire protection and life safety analyses for a single facility. I have performed detailed fire protection and life safety analyses for multiple buildings and occupancies. I have managed a fire protection and life safety team in the survey and analyses of multiple buildings and occupancies. I have coordinated fire protection and life safety reports from multiple locations to provide a comprehensive management report identifying recommendations and priorities for action bases on risk ratings. I have evaluated fire protection / life safety surveys for completeness and correct application of fire protection and life safety engineering concepts, including an analysis of trends and leading and lagging markers of the data. I have performed assessments on facility fire protection/life safety programs to identify gaps and areas of improvement. I have never performed fire protection and life safety surveys to evaluate the protection of buildings. 19 Which of the&nbsp;following describes your knowledge of fire protection engineering principles and practices to coordinate or manage fire protection programs? Answer to this question is required Assisted in the development and execution of a comprehensive fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program. Served as a project coordinator on fire protection related activities. Maintained liaison with local agency officials to ensure cooperation and coordinated with fire departments to ensure proper response for emergencies. Performed with supervision the well-established aspects of a fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program, such as tracking projects from the conception stage to completion and scheduling appropriate meetings and reviews. Gathered technical resource data to assist in a broad range of activities related to the implementation or coordination of a fire prevention/protection and emergency management program. Investigated a limited number of variables in accordance with approaches that were structured by others. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 20 Please select the responses that reflect your experience reviewing building plans and approving design and construction projects. Answer to this question is required Reviewed drawings, sketches, and notes for small building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for major building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for new building constructions. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for historic building renovations. I do not have this type of experience. 21 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in producing written products? Answer to this question is required Developed technical engineering reports, publications, or documents in the specialization of the position. Developed engineering papers, reports of study findings, technical decision documents and/or articles. Developed papers and reports explaining scientific or technical nonstandard subject matter. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 22 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have been independently administering contracts as a COTR. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.