Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Assistant Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the food service program with the Food Service Administrator, management of all levels within the institution, vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, and other staff of the institution. They also have frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmate&rsquo;s attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gained acceptance of proposals from institutional staff; and/or I have resolved inmate complaints about the food service operations; and/or I have explained proper food service procedures to new staff; and/or I have calmed down a disruptive inmate or group of inmates; and/or I have discussed an audit finding with others. I have briefed Executive Staff in the absence of the supervisor; and/or I have conducted staff meetings; and/or I have delegated work assignments; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to new employees; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation to newly incarcerated inmates. I have coordinated the special diet needs of an inmate in special housing unit with correctional services; and/or I have confirmed information received from vendors; and/or I have communicated requirements for trash pick-up with appropriate party; and/or I have provided routine information at supervisory meeting. None of the above. 3 Assistant Food Service Administrator must be able to independently compose comprehensive reports, write plans, develop nutritional menus and make recommendations regarding the delivery of the food service program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared correspondence to a vendor regarding deliveries; and/or I have authored correspondence to various levels in the agency on supervisor’s behalf; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have completed inmate time sheets; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have responded to an inmate request to a staff member regarding a food service issue; and/or I have updated routine reports for supervisor approval. None of the above. 4 Assistant Food Service Administrator under the direction of the Food Service Administrator, they are&nbsp;responsible for managing and coordinating all areas of a comprehensive food service delivery program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in maintaining accurate food service records; and/or I have provided basic guidance and direction in response to inquiries; and/or I have prepared an inventory analysis to be reviewed and utilized by supervisor. I have maintained accurate records in accordance to procedures on inventory and condition of food supplies; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper handling and storage procedures for differing food staples; and/or I have sought out for guidance by others on food service policy and procedures. I have developed nutritionally adequate menus; and/or I have contacted vendor regarding deliveries and orders; and/or I have ensured safety and sanitation standards were adhered to; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a food service budget. None of the above. 5 Assistant Food Service Administrators must have a comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of the Food Service Department, such as food safety, menu development, population trend analysis, monitoring inventory levels and procurement requirements for equipment, food, and supplies needed to operate the programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an inspector conducting a sanitation inspection; and/or I have assisted in presenting a food service training session; and/or I have ensured subordinate workers/inmate crew performed food preparation in accordance with menu specifications. I have enforced safety and sanitation regulations; and/or I have recognized and immediately corrected a deficient area in the preparation of mass quantities of food; and/or I have implemented a stock rotation schedule that resulted in increased food storage/usage efficiency. I have ensured staff completed mandatory training timely; and/or I have consulted with supervisor to make a food substitution due to supply shortage; and/or I have authored a training plan for a detail for training program; and/or I have meet with a nutritionist to develop a meal plan. None of the above. 6 Assistant Food Service Administrator in concert with the Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to assign responsibility and delegate authority in order to effectively assist in directing the operations of a Food Service Department.&nbsp;They are&nbsp;also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinate employees to maximize their potential for success and career advancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to subordinates on various levels of work experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of mainline operations; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. I have served as a staff mentor to a new employee; and/or I have trained/supervised inmates in basic work procedures; and/or I have observed the process of teamwork and methods/techniques used to derive results; and/or I have identified training course to improve staff performance; and/or I have notified staff of training or upcoming career enhancement opportunities. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Assistant Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the food service program with the Food Service Administrator, management of all levels within the institution, vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, and other staff of the institution. They also have frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmate&rsquo;s attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gained acceptance of proposals from institutional staff; and/or I have resolved inmate complaints about the food service operations; and/or I have explained proper food service procedures to new staff; and/or I have calmed down a disruptive inmate or group of inmates; and/or I have discussed an audit finding with others. I have briefed Executive Staff in the absence of the supervisor; and/or I have conducted staff meetings; and/or I have delegated work assignments; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to new employees; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation to newly incarcerated inmates. I have obtained cooperation with other departments to ensure the food service program needs are met; and/or I have participated in administrators meetings; and/or I have counseled employees on training needs and work performance; and/or I have resolved conflicts with vendors; and/or I have provided leadership and guidance to staff and others to ensure critical standards were met. None of the above. 3 Assistant Food Service Administrator must be able to independently compose comprehensive reports, write plans, develop nutritional menus and make recommendations regarding the delivery of the food service program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared correspondence to a vendor regarding deliveries; and/or I have authored correspondence to various levels in the agency on supervisor’s behalf; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have written requests and justifications for additional budget funds; and/or I have initiated correspondence for the supervisor and/or Executive Staff; and/or I have drafted an implementation plan as a result of a change in policy and/or procedures. None of the above. 4 Assistant Food Service Administrator under the direction of the Food Service Administrator, they are&nbsp;responsible for managing and coordinating all areas of a comprehensive food service delivery programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined the cost effectiveness of equipment; and/or I have developed work procedures which increased efficiency of operations; and/or I have evaluated food purchasing in terms of “convenience” vs. “scratch” preparation. I have maintained accurate records in accordance to procedures on inventory and condition of food supplies; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper handling and storage procedures for differing food staples; and/or I have sought out for guidance by others on food service policy and procedures. I have developed nutritionally adequate menus; and/or I have contacted vendor regarding deliveries and orders; and/or I have ensured safety and sanitation standards were adhered to; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a food service budget. None of the above. 5 Assistant Food Service Administrators must have a comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of the Food Service Department, such as food safety, menu development, population trend analysis, monitoring inventory levels and procurement requirements for equipment, food, and supplies needed to operate the program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an inspector conducting a sanitation inspection; and/or I have assisted in presenting a food service training session; and/or I have ensured subordinate workers/inmate crew performed food preparation in accordance with menu specifications. I have enforced safety and sanitation regulations; and/or I have recognized and immediately corrected a deficient area in the preparation of mass quantities of food; and/or I have implemented a stock rotation schedule that resulted in increased food storage/usage efficiency. I have independently performed internal audits and have written findings or drafted plans for corrective action; and/or I have developed a new procedure that resulted in cost savings; and/or I have drafted local policy based on national policy change. None of the above. 6 Assistant Food Service Administrator in concert with the Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to assign responsibility and delegate authority in order to effectively assist in directing the operations of a Food Service Department.&nbsp;They are&nbsp;also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinate employees to maximize their potential for success and career advancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to subordinates on various levels of work experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of mainline operations; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. I have prioritized workflow among available staff, making adjustments as necessary; and/or I have tracked workload of subordinates to ensure completion and accuracy; and/or I have counseled subordinates on performance, providing guidance and monitoring for improvement; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).