Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise and manage staff.** Supervised and managed a diverse staff in an information technology environment and completed the following tasks: 1) made hiring selections, 2) addressed performance and disciplinary issues, 3) clearly communicated performance expectations to employees, 4) provided advice to staff, 5) conducted periodic performance evaluations, 6) recommended training and professional development opportunities, 7) planned and assigned work, and 8) identified techniques and methods to enhance staff productivity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization which included 15 OR MORE people. Exercised ALL of the supervisory tasks listed above. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization that included 10 OR MORE people. Exercised ALL of the supervisory responsibilities listed above EXCEPT making hiring selections. Served as an OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization that included LESS THAN 10 people OR served as a PROJECT OR TEAM LEADER or equivalent in an information technology organization. Exercising MOST of the supervisory responsibilities listed above EXCEPT making hiring selections. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide IT program management, evaluation, and oversight.** Provided IT program management oversight to project managers, business analysts, and support staff who led, coordinated, and managed a portfolio of IT projects from planning through execution.&nbsp; This included the ability to plan, organize and oversee the work activities and schedules of a program, and the ability to evaluate the program and make recommendations for effective program changes. Answer to this question is required Independently provided IT program management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of the program. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Completed program goals within budget constraints and on time or ahead of scheduled. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Co-managed an IT program providing program management and oversight. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends, and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Completed program goals within budget constraints and on time or ahead of schedule. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and assisted with implementing plans to improve program effectiveness. Provided IT program management for segments of an overall program. With minimal supervision, evaluated programs and operations to identify improved management practices and process improvements to improve program effectiveness. Completed program goals within budget constraints and on time or ahead of schedule. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and assisted with implementing plans to improve program effectiveness. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide IT stakeholder management.** Collaborates with stakeholders to assess their needs, resolve issues, and deliver high-quality products and services.&nbsp; In doing so, performs the following: 1) serves as a liaison between IT teams, business units, and external vendors to ensure stakeholders are aligned on project goals, timelines, and deliverables, 2) promotes transparency by providing timely and accurate status updates on program progress, challenges, and changes, 3) maintains open lines of communication to encourage feedback and ensure issues are addressed proactively, 4) collaborates with stakeholders for acquisition analysis to ensure it aligns with organizational goals and objectives, 5) prepares and presents updates, reports, and presentations to key decision-makers, articulating program status, risks, and outcomes, and 6) translates complex technical information into easy-to-understand terms for non-technical audiences, ensuring everyone is informed and engaged. Answer to this question is required Independently performed ALL of the above functions for multiple IT programs. Independently performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above functions for multiple IT programs. Independently performed THREE (3) of the above functions for multiple IT programs. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents such as: 1) IT policies and procedures, 2) risk assessment documents, 3) incident reports, 4) meeting summaries and action items tracking, 5) performance evaluations, 6) SOW/RFP, 7) business plans, 8) system development life cycle documents, 9) project and/or operational status reports, and 10) analyses of industry/technology issues and trends. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, wrote a variety of technical documents including ALL of the above. As a principal author, wrote EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above documents. As a principal author, wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems in an IT organization and develop solutions using analytical methods to improve programs and processes. Developed, planned, and evaluated strategies needed to coordinate and solve organizational and operational IT issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Analyzed a wide variety of complex organizational and operational IT issues/problems related to program goals and objectives for the IT program area supervised. Led the development of IT program evaluation strategies/methodologies: analyzed alternatives and reached sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or enhancement, and ensured quality goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Analyzed organizational and operational IT issues/problems related to program goals and objectives for the IT program area supervised. Developed IT program evaluation strategies/methodologies: analyzed alternatives and reached sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or enhancement. Performed a key role in resolving organizational and operational IT issues/problems that significantly affected program administration and played a key role in developing IT program evaluation strategies/methodologies. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).