Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services. Entering procurement data into an automated system. Tracking delivery of goods and services. Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders. Completing a variety of procurement forms. Purchasing a variety of goods and services. Obtaining prices for available goods and services. Conducting market surveys for available goods and services. Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability. I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties. I do not have experience, education or training in procurement. 3 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience/education performing the following duties? Answer to this question is required I have used a computerized financial accounting system, prepared purchase orders and requisitions, ensured that invoices are received and processed for payment, identified appropriate accounts, assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generated reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have also prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system, prepared purchase orders and requisitions, identified appropriate accounts, assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generated reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have also prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system and prepared purchase orders and requisitions. I do not have the experience or education described above. 5 Which of the following reflect your experience providing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (ie, statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement. I have trained and coached other staff on administrative functions such as procurement. I have established and maintained controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 7 Which of the following best describes your experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s) to include funds, grants, gifts, etc.? Answer to this question is required I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s). I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records. I have experience with reconciliation. I do not have related experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing/reviewing financial documents, verifying complete and correct information and financial data, preparing/reviewing documents to deposit revenue, and recording transactions and reconciles financial records?(check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and reviewed financial documents. I have verified complete and correct information and financial data. I have prepared and reviewed documents to deposit revenue. I have recorded transactions. I have reconciled financial records. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience using automated financial systems? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports, and I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of funds. I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. Experience, education, or training is less than the levels described above. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial reporting systems (e.g. Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Farsight)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 12 Which of the following describes your experience utilizing financial database systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. I have used a financial system on a daily basis, and used basic financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports. I have used a variety of financial management software applications and programs on a continuing basis to prepare complex financial reports and to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 09 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience procuring goods and services in a government or similar organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience in both procurement, using all the methods list below, and monitoring expenditures for compliance with budget and Federal government or a similar organizational policy. I have experience in information gathering for and the creating of a requisition, purchase order and purchase card transactions within the Federal Government or a similar organization. I have experience in procuring goods and services within the Federal Government or a similar organization by using purchase orders or requisitions, and a purchase card. I have experience in procuring goods and services within the Federal Government or a similar organization by using a purchase card. None of the above. 3 Identify the roles you have performed in Federal Procurement. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have experience requesting, monitoring and accepting purchases through automated programs such as PeopleSoft or similar applications. I have prepared requisitions for Federal procurements, including obtaining required supporting documents such as quotations and statements of work. I have served as a buyer for Federally funded procurements. I have reviewed and approved payment of invoices. I have inspected and received procurements. I have served as a Federal Purchase Card holder. None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience/education performing the following duties? Answer to this question is required I have used a computerized financial accounting system, prepared purchase orders and requisitions, ensured that invoices are received and processed for payment, identified appropriate accounts, assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generated reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have also prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system, prepared purchase orders and requisitions, identified appropriate accounts, assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generated reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have also prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system and prepared purchase orders and requisitions. I do not have the experience or education described above. 5 Which of the following reflect your experience providing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (ie, statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement. I have trained and coached other staff on administrative functions such as procurement. I have established and maintained controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following reflects your experience overseeing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (i.e., statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc.). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of official policies surrounding regulated financial transactions and experience in creating, reconciling, and managing multiple program or unit managed cuff records for regulated funds? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in official policies through creating, reconciling, and managing program or unit managed cuff records for funds with many types of regulations. I have experience and knowledge in managing and reconciling internal cuff records for various types of regulated funding. I have knowledge of official policies and how to research regulations surrounding different types of funding. I have experience reconciling internal cuff records. I have general knowledge of different types of funding but no experience in managing those different funding sources. I have no experience with cuff records or none of the above. 9 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed as part of your routine work assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in funds management. I have entered financial transactions into an automated tracking system. I have determined and verified accounting codes to be used to identify transactions, sources, purposes and programs. I have recommended and implemented changes to improve fund management processes and procedures. I have alerted managers of funds in jeopardy of deficit and/or unresolved discrepancies. I have tracked income and expenses for a broad range of funds with great degree of accuracy. I have updated and verified financial reports for distribution to program managers. I have reconciled accounting system records with cuff records and tracked down data to make necessary corrections or adjustments. I have ensured that expenditures do not exceed available account balances. 10 Which best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience using automated financial systems? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports, and I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of funds. I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. Experience, education, or training is less than the levels described above. None of the above. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with financial management software? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of Federal and/or non-Federal funds. I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports with Agency-wide impact. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.