Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Interpret Legislative Text and Information.** Located and interpreted legislative and statutory information from authoritative sources. This included being able to identify and apply appropriate research tools and other information sources, including official government documents and commercial resources. Answer to this question is required Routinely located and interpreted legislative and statutory information from authoritative sources, including both official government documents and commercial resources. Frequently located and interpreted legislative and statutory information from authoritative sources, from either official government documents or commercial resources. Occasionally located and interpreted legislative and statutory information from authoritative sources, from either official government documents or commercial resources. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to attend to detail.** Verified the accuracy and completeness of data and text, including: 1) correctly using referenced sources; 2) identifying missing data and text; 3) comparing differences between texts; 4) identifying typographical, drafting, and citation errors; and 5) identifying contextually relevant information. Answer to this question is required Had extensive experience performing ALL of the activities listed above. Had extensive experience performing FOUR of the activities listed above. Had extensive experience performing THREE of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to utilize computer/information technology.** Employed a variety of technologies to support work processes. These included: 1) Microsoft Office suite and email; 2) policy or legal research databases; and 3) legislative information databases, such as Congress&rsquo;s legislative information systems. Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above technologies to support work processes. Routinely used TWO of the above technologies to support work processes. Frequently used TWO of the above technologies to support work processes. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others.** In a complex professional organization, worked well and cooperated with a variety of individuals (e.g., co-workers, supervisors, managers) to accomplish the work of an office and to ensure administrative deadlines and requirements were met. Answer to this question is required Routinely worked collaboratively with others inside and outside an organization to collect and share/present information needed to complete projects, tasks and/or assignments. Frequently worked collaboratively with others inside an organization to collect and share information needed to complete tasks and/or assignments. Worked with others inside an organization to collect and share information on established office procedures and requirements. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).