Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following types of logistics or business problems / issues do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Reorganization Technology deployment Business development and process improvement Benchmarking Strategic planning Outsourcing / competitive sourcing / third party logistics / strategic sourcing Shared services Activity based cost analysis Resource planning / justification Budgeting and expense management None of the above 2 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in resource management? Answer to this question is required I have education, but no specific experience in this area I have been responsible for providing input into at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) I have been responsible for at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) for an organization, sub-unit, or program I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for a major sub-component (i.e., project or recurring task) I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for an organization (or sub-unit) or program None of the above 3 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues. Answer to this question is required Risk Management Personnel Suitability Compartmentalization Defense in depth Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance Counter-Terrorism Counter-Intelligence Information Assurance International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) Construction Security Technical Security Physical Security Force Protection Countermeasures Information Technologies None of the above 4 Please indicate the types of resources you have allocated across a wide range of security programs? Answer to this question is required Logistical Workforce Operational Financial None of the above 5 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with evaluating security programs for system vulnerability. Answer to this question is required I have education and training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have conducted oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have made recommendations to managers regarding changes in security programs, policies and/or procedures. I have implemented changes to existing security programs, policies and/or procedures to increase program efficiency and effectiveness. I have participated in oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have no education or training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities. 6 Select the type of experience you have had that indicates your ability to be productive and work independently. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Worked independently in establishing priorities. Managed time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handled heavy workload while working within tight deadline pressures. Ensured tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapted behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organized work, determine resource requirements, and evaluate progress. Ensured program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above 7 Please indicate the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units / organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex project. None of the above 8 Which project management tasks have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Initiated and managed projects through completion Established and monitored project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitored performance Anticipated and resolved problems None of the above 9 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan and organize to meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have assessed and improved the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations in the office to meet deadlines. I have determined the order of processing for a wide range of related office activities in order to meet deadlines. I have coordinated and scheduled a variety of related office activates to avoid conflicts and ensure that predetermined deadlines are met. I have planned daily work activities to meet deadlines. I have no experience in performing this task. 10 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with others to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.