Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience:&nbsp; &nbsp;Serving as program coordinator in support of organizational programs and activities participating in planning, processing requests, assisting employees, and developing administrative controls;&nbsp; Executing office support functions including purchasing, acquisition, information technology support, records maintenance, travel administration, and human capital;&nbsp; Providing recommendations to various levels of staff on administrative and procedural requirements;&nbsp; and&nbsp; Writing, researching and editing informational materials that are compliant with required editorial styles and rules of grammar. 2 Do you have experience performing human resources (HR)-related activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience providing administrative support to senior executives within a fast-paced team environment with changing priorities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which activities have you performed to organize the workflow of an office? Answer to this question is required Scheduled conference rooms Maintained an automated calendar Made travel arrangements Processed training requests Set up meetings Ordered supplies Maintained office supplies Set up and maintained office files Routed mail Tracked expenses for budget Processed timesheets None of the Above Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience:&nbsp; &nbsp;Providing support for Human Capital Management Division (HCMD) issues to include staffing and recruitment, position classification, employee and labor relations, human capital planning and performance management;&nbsp; &nbsp;Managing and executing office support functions including purchasing, acquisition, information technology support, records maintenance, travel administration, and human capital;&nbsp; &nbsp;Formulating informational strategies which promote an understanding of programs and procedures for a variety of target audiences in alignment with a strategic plan;&nbsp; &nbsp;Advises and recommends innovative approaches for avoiding and /or resolving problems and reducing conflicts on administrative and procedural requirements;&nbsp; and&nbsp; &nbsp; Developing and delivering oral and written presentations and making recommendations on management issues in concise and convincing language. 2 Which activities have you performed to administer a human resources (HR) program? Answer to this question is required Provided advice and support to managers and staff on HR policies, processes and procedures. Initiated and coordinated requests for personnel actions with the human resources office. Provided position and workforce management advice and recommendations. Assisted in the management and development of position descriptions and job analysis. Advised management on incentive awards. Consulted with supervisors on sensitive or difficult employee relations problems. Identified training needs and recommended training for employees. None of the above. 3 What tasks did you perform to administer a budget or finance program? Answer to this question is required Advised management on availability of funds and day-to-day management of expenses. Participated in formulating and updating fiscal management plans. Assembled and compiled preliminary data to estimate funds needed for program activities. Compiled information for the annual organizational budget. Entered expenditures and obligations into a database and utilized computer spreadsheets to track expenditures and deadlines. Recommended strategies for obtaining and using funds. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement purchase card or supervising employees who have a company/office procurement purchase card? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Planned meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 2 Do you have experience helping staff meet requirements for records management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you had training in handling Personal Identifying Information (PII)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following tasks have you routinely performed using automated information systems. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Established and maintained databases. Input and retrieved data. Prepared charts, graphs and/or spreadsheets. Prepared correspondence. Prepared reports. Prepared slides for presentations. Received and responded to e-mails. Scheduled and coordinated appointments and/or meetings using electronic calendars. Tracked the status of actions and requests. None of the above. 5 Select the statement that best describes your experience using WebTA. Answer to this question is required I have not used WebTA. I have completed training or education in the use of WebTA, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have entered time and attendance data into WebTA. I have entered time and attendance data and run standard reports from WebTA report selections. I have entered time and attendance data, run standard reports from WebTA report selections, and managed WebTA accounts (set up, edit, deactivate, etc.). I have reconciled time and attendance discrepancies. 6 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 7 Which tasks have you performed to communicate and process information? Answer to this question is required Summarized and reconciled financial data. Planned and monitored the use of expenditures and prepared financial documents and reports. Collected and analyzed data. Conveyed information and ideas through a variety of media sources. Interpreted and applied written policies and procedures. Analyzed policies concerning operating programs and recommended management proposals to enhance the productivity of the work environment. None of the above. 8 Choose the statements that describe your experience in developing written materials. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed written materials for briefings, meetings or seminars. Drafted procedural materials for dissemination to employees. Drafted reports, memoranda and other correspondence for signature by upper management. None of the above. 9 Which types of technical reports have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports Financial reports Data justification reports (non-financial) Performance accountability reports Data interpretation/research reports (other than for performance accountability) None of the above 10 Choose the oral communication tasks you have performed at work. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Provided advice, guidance and direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Provided informational presentations to co-workers. Provided non-technical instructions to others (e.g., subordinates, new hires). Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task. None of the above. 11 How have you addressed substantive problems characterized by complex, controversial, and/or sensitive matters? Answer to this question is required Determined the breadth and scope of research required. Established and/or applied analytical processes and procedures to identify/isolate the problem, issue, or concern. Analyzed disputed vague facts and/or information that was vigorously challenged. Validated disputed methods, approaches, and principles. None of the above. 12 What types of administrative problems have you encountered and successfully resolved? Please provide a brief statement of how you successfully resolved the administrative problems you encountered in the narrative textbox below. Answer to this question is required Discrepancies in data Misreporting data (e.g., oversimplification, incomplete) Miscommunication of critical information Barriers to productivity Illegal or unethical behavior None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.