Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Experience managing complex public affairs projects and teams Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 2 Which of the following kinds of materials have you used in assessing public and media attitudes? Answer to this question is required Polling data Focus group report Media research reports Feedback surveys None of the above 3 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Opinion piece for newspaper Letters to the editor Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications plans Policy guidance Congressional testimony Correspondence Feature articles Talking points Decision memos Brochures Video scripts Books Budget justifications None of the above 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience gathering information to make informed decisions? Answer to this question is required I have never or rarely had to perform this task. I have usually considered information from a single source (e.g., policy, data, a team lead, etc.) to make informed decisions on issues. I have usually considered information from multiple sources to make informed decisions on issues. I have identified, combined, and analyzed information from multiple sources to make informed decisions on issues. I have gathered information from multiple sources, including stakeholders with diverse and conflicting perspectives, to develop, evaluate, and implement plans and strategies that drive organizational success. 5 With which of the following have you performed public affairs outreach as a significant part of your job? Answer to this question is required Senior officials Congress Foreign news media Domestic news media The public Non-Governmental Organizations U.S. Academia Private sector None of the above 6 What functions have you performed in connection with world or national events? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson to media on world or national events. Written or edited information materials on world or national events. Organized briefings, lectures, or seminars for the public or specialized audiences on world or national events. Briefed organization leadership or world or national events. None of the above 7 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience responding orally to inquiries and requests for information or interviews from local, national, and international media outlets? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with advising personnel on communications strategies for handling sensitive or controversial topics with the media and/or public? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 9 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 10 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.