Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official including receiving telephone calls and visitors from within and outside the organization, answering or referring inquiries to appropriate individuals, reviewing and keeping abreast of all correspondence and e-mail, determining actions required by others and ensuring that deadlines and responses are tracked. I have experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official including receiving telephone calls and visitors from within and outside the organization, answering or referring inquiries to appropriate individuals, reviewing and keeping abreast of all correspondence and e-mail and determining actions required by others. I have experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official including receiving telephone calls and visitors from within and outside the organization, answering or referring inquiries to appropriate individuals and reviewing and keeping abreast of all correspondence. I have experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official including receiving telephone calls and visitors from within and outside the organization and answering or referring inquiries to appropriate individuals. I have experience serving as a confidential assistant to a Director or senior management official including receiving telephone calls and visitors from within and outside the organization. I do not have related experience. 3 Which of the following describes your administrative experience in support of an organization? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have experience as an Executive/Administrative Assistant to a high-level official within a mid-sized or larger company or corporation. I have experience as an Executive/Administrative Assistant to a mid-level official within a mid-sized or larger company or corporation. I have experience as a senior administrative employee that required me to undertake projects or make decisions without having to consult with a superior. I have experience as an administrative assistant for a small company. I have limited administrative experience in support of an organization. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of museum functions, principles, policies, standards and practices? Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge of museum functions, principles, policies, standards and practices. I have moderate knowledge of museum functions, principles, policies, standards, and practices. I have minimal knowledge of museum functions, principles, policies, standards, and practices. I have no knowledge of museum functions, principles, policies, standards, and practices. 5 Which of the following administrative support activities have personally engaged? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the areas of time and attendance and reconciling leave and payroll problems. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as telephone changes, office moves, travel, time & attendance, and files maintenance. I have maintained my supervisor's calendar. I have maintained my staff's calendars. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of and experience in current and emerging technologies? Answer to this question is required I have experience using a broad range of digital tools and applications, online analysis techniques and tools, emerging technologies, and industry trends specializing in data collection, analysis, and reporting. I have experience using a broad range of digital tools and applications, online analysis techniques and tools, emerging technologies, and industry trends. I have knowledge of or training in digital tools and applications, and online analysis techniques and tools. I do not have knowledge of or experience in current or emerging technologies. 7 Which of the following best describes your ability to review program procedures and integrate changes to meet organizational goals? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of the tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained other in performance of these skills and/or normally considered by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following describes your experiences with oral communication? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience responding to requests for information from the public concerning an organizations programs and services I have experience responding to requests for information from high level officials and key stakeholders. I have experience establishing effective interpersonal relationships in order to accomplish work. I have experience using oral communication skills to encourage public involvement in an organization’s programs and activities. I have experience advising senior staff on the feasibility and status of programs and/or projects. I have experience representing an organization at external events. I do not have any of the experiences described above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience in written communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience gathering data and organizing it to be presented. I have experience writing technical reports, letters, and memorandums. I have experience writing non-technical reports, memos and routine office memorandums. I have experience preparing reports that contain timely, accurate, and essential management information. I have completed course work or formal training in written communication. I have experience preparing external management reports, statements, supporting schedules, justifications, and related documentation. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your ability to build consensus and facilitate cooperative and collaborative relationships? Answer to this question is required I have strong leadership, teamwork, and interpersonal skills and/or experience in managing complex projects and working collaboratively with diverse individuals and groups. I have experience working with multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have experience leading multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have led and facilitated collaborative teams and relationships with required stakeholders. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.