Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to conduct business analyses.** The ability to understand the business needs of an agency/organization and relate those needs to technical, functional, or process requirements needed to define the solution. Planned, analyzed, and designed applications to meet organizational and user needs. Performed the following tasks: 1) conducted requirements analyses to define opportunities for new features and functionality, 2) synthesized, clarified, defined, and documented complex user requirements and technical requirements, 3) worked with stakeholders to develop test plans, execute testing, and record results, and 4) ensured the integration and implementation of applications, functions, or processes. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, performed ALL tasks listed above in conducting systems analysis and design for HIGHLY COMPLEX applications, functions, or processes. As a primary job responsibility, performed ALL tasks listed above in conducting systems analysis and design for MULTIPLE complex applications, functions, or processes. As a primary job responsibility, performed ALL tasks listed above in conducting analysis and design for ONE complex application, function, or process. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to work within a structured project process.** In leading the business analysis phases of projects to achieve desired outcomes, performed the following tasks: 1) met project milestones, 2) controlled and delivered project deliverables, 3) identified problems, assessed risk, and evaluated potential solutions, 4) managed project requirements and user expectations, 5) optimized the contribution of the people involved, 6) clarified positions and differences in expectations, 7) facilitated discussions to work toward solutions, and 8) evaluated accomplishments and lessons learned. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, participated in projects and executed ALL of the above tasks on MULTIPLE, SIMULTANEOUS projects As a business analyst, participated in projects and executed ALL of the above tasks on MULTIPLE projects As a key team member, participated in multiple projects and executed at least six of the above tasks. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to document business requirements.** Used industry best practices to: 1) synthesize, clarify, define, document and translate user functional and non-functional requirements and expectations into appropriate business analytical documents (e.g., business requirements, use cases, user stories, business process diagrams, high-level data definition, business rules, test cases, critical success factors, process models); 2) conduct in-depth analysis, including gap analyses, on IT applications, functions or processes; 3) identify quantitative and qualitative costs, benefits, and risks; and 4) develop requirements for transition from the "as is" state to the "to be" state. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, executed ALL of the above tasks on MULTIPLE, SIMULTANEOUS projects. Served as the primary author for business analytical documents. As a business analyst, participated in projects and executed ALL of the above tasks on MULTIPLE projects. Served as a contributing author for business analytical documents. As a key team member, participated in multiple projects and executed MOST of the above tasks. Served as a contributing author for business analytical documents. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions.** Developed, planned, and analyzed the strategies necessary to coordinate and solve organizational and operational issues and problems. This includes the ability to set priorities among multiple tasks and work effectively under the pressure of tight time frames and rigid deadlines. Answer to this question is required Solved multiple complex technical and functional problems with critical consequences that impacted an entire organization within a constrained time frame. Considered multiple options for resolving problem and the long-range implications of each option before arriving at a decision. Solved a complex technical or functional problem with important consequences for the organization. Contributed to the resolution of a complex technical or functional problem with important consequences for the organization. Served as a major contributor to the resolution of a complex technical or functional problem with important consequences for the organization. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents. These included: 1) planning documents, 2) system specifications, 3) project and/or operational status reports, 4) standard operation procedures, 5) process documentation, 6) results of industry/technology analysis, 7) user manuals, 8) training documents, 9) policy and procedure guides, and 10) announcements. Answer to this question is required As a primary author, wrote ALL OF THE ABOVE documents. As a primary author, wrote EIGHT OF THE ABOVE documents. As a primary author, wrote SIX OF THE ABOVE documents. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration.&nbsp; Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to focus on the customer. Provided positive and professional service to customers by anticipating and recognizing their current and future needs, putting those needs first, and maintaining a professional image. This included meeting commitments to customers on time and keeping them informed, seeking and using customer feedback, and handling issues effectively Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, proactively kept customers apprised of the status of MULTIPLE, SIMULTANEOUS projects. Provided timely responses to customer inquiries, and resolved highly unusual, difficult, or sensitive issues. As a business analyst, proactively kept customers apprised of the status of MULTIPLE projects. Provided timely responses to customer inquiries, and resolved highly unusual, difficult, or sensitive issues. As a business analyst, IT professional, or individual serving in a customer facing role, provided timely response to customer inquiries on multiple projects. Provided status of requests, and resolved unusual, difficult, or sensitive requests or complaints. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).