Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate`s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have participated as a full member of the management team and serve as the focal point for administrative management within organization served. I have defined, analyzed, and prepared data and information on the planning and execution of strategic plans. I have applied principles and applications of organizational assessments, management intervention and change management, management indicators, effectiveness and efficiency measures, and measurement system design techniques to organizational problems. I have applied re-engineering business principles, measured performance via organizational assessments, and managed change by identifying problems and developing solutions. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes a smooth flow and even distribution to ensure staff is effectively utilized to meet organizational and customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have performed these tasks as a supervisor/leader/senior staff member. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored by a supervisor/lead/or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have no experience planning or scheduling the work of others. I have performed these tasks without supervision and am often consulted by others to assist with these tasks due to my expertise. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience demonstrating your ability to oversee exhibition planning and development? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team in planning and developing a major exhibition. I have experience being responsible for the research and content development for exhibitions. I have experience being responsible for managing the budget and schedule for a major exhibition. I have experience having led evaluation for exhibition projects. I have experience being familiar with the principles and techniques of participatory exhibitions. I have performed no activities related to exhibition planning and development. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, and development. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management. I have experience serving as a liaison. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives and ensuring that all exhibition, interpretation, and media components are addressed? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives and ensuring that all exhibition, interpretation, and media components are addressed. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, and routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, and tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing exhibition planning documents. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing or managing traveling exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have overseen a traveling exhibition program, selected exhibitions for travel, developed an exhibition action plan from the identification of goals, cost analysis, and design arrangement, and overseen the booking/logistics for traveling exhibits. I have led a team in the planning, design, structure, and/or tour of a traveling exhibition. I have assisted staff in the development of and logistics for a traveling exhibition. I have conducted research, concept development, planning, schedule, and design for an exhibition. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following reflects your experience with traveling exhibitions? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have led a team in the planning, design, fabrication, and tour of a traveling exhibition. I have assisted staff in the development of and logistics for a traveling exhibition. I have determined traveling exhibition goals through communication with or data about potential venues. I have offered customer service to venues hosting traveling exhibitions. I have arranged for traveling exhibitions to be shown at the institution where I worked I have developed complementary exhibitions, displays, or programming to enhance traveling exhibitions shown at the institution where I worked. I have no experience developing or hosting traveling exhibitions. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, organizing, scheduling, and communicating with stakeholders for clarification of information related to assigned projects, collecting information for material costs from staff, formulating exhibition budget estimates, schedules, and scope of work for each project and monitoring expenditures against the final budget estimate? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience with planning, organizing, scheduling, and communicating with stakeholders for clarification of information related to assigned projects, collecting information for material costs from staff, formulating exhibition budget estimates, schedules, and scope of work for each project and monitoring expenditures against the final budget estimate. I have limited experience with planning, organizing, scheduling, and communicating with stakeholders for clarification of information related to assigned projects, collecting information for material costs from staff, formulating exhibition budget estimates, schedules, and scope of work for each project and monitoring expenditures against the final budget estimate. I do not possess the experience described above. 10 Which of the following procurement and contracting functions have you performed (check all that&nbsp; apply)? Answer to this question is required I have applied knowledge of Federal procurement and contracting regulations and procedures. I have basic knowledge of Federal procurement and contracting regulations and procedures. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have overseen a competitive bidding process, including preparing requests for proposals (RFPs), evaluating the proposals, and selecting a vendor I have evaluated the qualifications of vendors. I have researched product options, availability, and pricing. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have negotiated contract terms or pricing. I have served as a Contracting Officer’s (Technical) Representative (COR/COTR) to ensure that contract terms and requirements are met. None of the above. 11 Which of the following activities have you performed to project and monitor expenses in your organization? (check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have estimated costs for individual projects based on historic data. I have participated in the preparation of budget estimates for an office or department. I have compiled estimates and prepared budget requests for a department or large scale, multi-component or multi-year project. I have monitored expenditures for an individual project. I have monitored expenditures for a department or multi-part/multi-line project. I have resolved cost overruns through adjustments within a project or budget transfers between projects. I have supplemented organizational resources through partnerships, in-kind gifts or fundraising. I have developed and implemented internal control policies and procedures. I have received education or training on financial/budget policies, procedures and techniques, but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.