Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: ES No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 ECQ 1 - COMMITMENT TO THE RULE OF LAW AND THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AMERICAN FOUNDING:&nbsp; Demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the Rule of Law, and commitment to serve the American people. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 ECQ 2 - &nbsp;DRIVING EFFICIENCY:&nbsp; Demonstrated ability to strategically and sufficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 ECQ 3 - MERIT AND COMPETENCE:&nbsp; Demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 ECQ 4 - LEADING PEOPLE:&nbsp; Demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals; To drive a high-performance, high-accountability culture. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 ECQ 5 - ACHIEVING RESULTS:&nbsp; Demonstrated ability to achieve both individual and organizational results, and to align results to state goals from superiors. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).