Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described in the job announcement. 2 Are you able to communicate fluently, including speaking, reading and writing, in both&nbsp; English and Spanish?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience writing, proofreading or copy-editing content for digital or printed materials?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have routinely written, proofread or copy-edited content for digital and printed organizational materials and have been relied upon to produce clear, accurate, publication-ready work. I have independently written, proofread or copy-edited content for digital or printed organizational materials as a regular part of the job. I have written, proofread or copy-edited organizational content under close review by a supervisor, editor or senior employee. I have completed education or training in writing, proofreading or editing, but have not performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in writing, proofreading or editing content. 4 Which of the following types of content have you written, proofread or copy-edited? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Website or digital channel content. Social media or newsletter content. Printed materials, public-facing handouts or brochures. Exhibition, educational or public program materials. Talking points, speeches, leadership messages or advancement communications. None of the above. 5 Which statement best describes your experience reviewing written materials for grammar,&nbsp; style, structure, format, consistency and factual accuracy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex written materials for grammar, style, structure, format, consistency and factual accuracy and have recommended revisions to improve clarity and usability. I have independently reviewed written materials for grammar, style, structure, format, consistency and factual accuracy as a regular part of the job. I have reviewed written materials for grammar, style, structure, format, consistency or factual accuracy under close supervision. I have completed education or training in editorial review or factchecking but have not performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in editorial review or factchecking. 6 Which of the following editorial review tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Checked spelling, grammar, punctuation, style and format. Verified names, titles, dates, quotations, captions or source references. Crosschecked information across sections of a document or publication. Conducted research using records, reference sources, subject matter experts or published materials. Applied a style guide such as AP Stylebook, Chicago Manual of Style or an organizational style guide. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your experience translating, adapting or reviewing content between English and Spanish?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have routinely translated, adapted or reviewed English- and Spanish-language content for organizational use and ensured meaning, tone, terminology and readability were appropriate for the audience. I have independently translated, adapted or reviewed English- and Spanish-language content as a regular part of the job. I have translated, adapted or reviewed English- and Spanish-language content under close review by a supervisor, editor or senior employee. I have completed education or training in translation or bilingual communication but have not performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in translation or bilingual communication. 8 Which of the following bilingual content tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Translated English content into Spanish. Translated Spanish content into English. Reviewed bilingual content for grammar, syntax, terminology, style or readability. Adapted translated content for tone, audience, platform or institutional voice. Consulted with content owners or references to clarify meaning or terminology. None of the above. 9 Which statement best describes your experience coordinating editorial, publication, printed material or digital product workflows?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have substantially coordinated publication or content production workflows involving multiple stakeholders, deadlines, approvals, vendors, inventory or distribution tasks. I have independently coordinated with content owners, designers, vendors, printers, distributors or internal stakeholders to support publication or content production. I have assisted with publication, inventory, distribution or production coordination tasks under close supervision. I have completed education or training related to publication or production coordination but have not performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in publication or production coordination. 10 Which of the following coordination tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Worked with authors, content owners, designers, vendors, printers or distributors. Tracked deadlines, requests, versions, approvals or deliverables. Coordinated distribution of printed or digital materials. Maintained inventory, files, records or supporting materials. Handled stakeholder communications tactfully to obtain content, edits or approvals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.