Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Mental Health Unit Psychologists must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests, neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates' behavior in order to effectively counsel and treat them. They also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psycho pathology, or vocational assessment. I have as a licensed psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories like the MMPI or PAI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, risk assessments like the VRAG; and/or I have as a licensed psychologist, written psychological reports which included assessment results. I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have as a licensed psychologist, conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have as a licensed psychologist provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. I have as a doctoral level psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or I have as a doctoral level psychologist, scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have as a doctoral level psychologist, assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. None of the above. 4 Mental Health Unit Psychologists must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substances abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation. I have as a licensed psychologist, assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment techniques such as: cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, suicide prevention, reality therapy, relaxation techniques, problem-solving, anger management, or group counseling. I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, received training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, EMDR, or biofeedback; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have as a doctoral level psychologist, assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation. I have as a licensed psychologist, assisted in conducting research on the effectiveness of treatment interventions; and/or I have as a licensed psychologist, assisted in identifying and referring patients who could benefit from treatment involving psychotropic medications or neurological interventions. I have as a doctoral level psychologist, made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have as a doctoral level psychologist, participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. None of the above. 5 Mental Health Unit Psychologists must have knowledge of mood disorders, substance abuse disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior, provide appropriate interventions, and counsel inmates individually and in a group setting. They must have working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance abuse, and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have as a licensed psychologist provided individual and group psychotherapy with the goal of meeting specific client needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational. I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have as a licensed psychologist, developed client specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or I have as a licensed psychologist, conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study. I have as a doctoral level psychologist, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have as a doctoral level psychologist, participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have as a doctoral level psychologist, co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 6 Mental Health Unit Psychologists play an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. 7 Mental Health Unit Psychologists are responsible for coordinating and directing treatment for inmates with major mental illnesses in a correctional facility. They must have familiarity with evidence-based practices for the treatment of major mental illnesses, including the use of pharmacological interventions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted as a Mental Health Unit Psychologist in a correctional setting; and/or I have practiced in a treatment program for clients with major mental illnesses; and/or I have worked as a therapist for clients with major mental illnesses in a correctional facility, or out-patient hospitalization setting; and/or I have provided counseling services to clients also under the care of a psychiatrist. I have supervised one or more practicum students or interns in the delivery of services to inmates with major mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or borderline personality disorder; and/or I have taught courses or provided training in the area of major mental illnesses; and/or I have served as the psychologist assigned to the "psychiatric clinic" treatment team and assisted the psychiatrist in the provision of services to mentally ill inmates. I have completed an internship rotation in an inpatient treatment unit for the mentally ill; and/or I have assisted significantly with conducting a research project in the treatment of mentally ill offenders; and/or I have worked in a setting that provided day treatment to clients with major mental illnesses. I have provided clinical supervision to treatment staff in a specialty program for clients with major mental illnesses; and/or I have created and administered a treatment program for mentally ill inmates; and/or I have served on a work group to develop curricula or training material for a specialty treatment program for mentally ill inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).