Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Curriculum Developer communicates in writing with a variety of people, including management at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, staff and individuals outside of the organization.&nbsp; Effective writing skills are required in order to address areas of common interest or concerns regarding development of curricula, programs and/or performance standards.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for preparing technical documents free of errors, and written in a manner which is easily understood by the intended audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed existing lesson plans and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify and/or further define policy and procedure; and/or I have independently created draft training program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; modified existing curricula/lesson plans; and/or I have submitted recommendations for consideration to update instructional program statement to conform with policy changes; and/or I have developed proposed student testing procedures. I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance evaluations; and/or I have prepared reports for agency staff such as statistical material for decision and informational purposes; and/or I have investigated and wrote incident reports on infractions committed by inmates. I have researched and developed a body of information that is utilized to train employees, modify policy and/or procedure, or influence executive level staff to implement change to national policy; and/or I have submitted a technical training document or executive staff paper which impacted personnel throughout the agency; and/or I have independently developed advanced curricula that is easy to understand; and/or I have prepared agency reports pertaining to training initiatives; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement. None of the above. 5 The Curriculum Developer designs, develops, and evaluates learner-center instructional designs and curricula for various target audiences, ranging from introductory training to advanced training.&nbsp; The training is designed to teach job requirements and enhance employee performance.&nbsp; Therefore, he/she must be knowledgeable of various training strategies, including needs assessments and evaluation of training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and performed needs assessments for non-introductory training; and/or I have facilitated a workgroup responsible for the development of training objectives that targeted a national audience or impacted management objectives; and/or I have developed instructional methodologies and provided instruction which resulted in improved staff performance; and/or I have developed a complex or controversial training program and facilitated the training for a national forum. I have evaluated institution or local level training programs and provided recommendations which improved training and staff participation; and/or I have reviewed training needs assessments of others and recommended training based on data collected; and/or I have facilitated an institution level training course based on results of a program deficiency identified during an audit. I have assisted in facilitating training or instructional events at the institution and/or local level; and/or I have participated in performance based scenarios and/or mock training exercises; and/or I have created a training presentation utilizing Microsoft programs or similar program. None of the above. 6 The Curriculum Developer is responsible for collecting data from a variety of sources to include subject matter experts (SMEs), needs analysis reports and studies, reports, test data and evaluative surveys.&nbsp; He/she must be able to effectively evaluate the sources of data and develop recommendations pertaining to the training programs for the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected sufficient data to be used by supervisor in updating internal controls which ensure policy compliance; and/or I have assisted in gathering, analyzing and formulating plans of action to improve a program or revise an internal procedure; and/or I have identified a deficiency in an internal procedure and notified supervisor for further action. I have independently gathered information specific to program review deficiency, analyzed related policy and procedural documents and provided recommendations for supervisory consideration to correct deficiency or increase effectiveness of facility operations; and/or I have collected sufficient documentation to develop/organize data and procedures for the institution to meet ACA accreditation or program review guidelines; and/or I have participated on a workgroup by assisting with research to aid in the final product development and presentation; and/or I have researched and provided recommendations for corrective action of a management issue. I have researched a specific topic and made recommendations which impacted a national audience; and/or I have led a workgroup responsible for analyzing, interpreting and/or providing guidance that impacted agency policies or procedures; and/or I have established goals, assigned and monitored work of the members and communicated findings with CEO and presented final product to key players; and/or I have investigated a known deficiency in organizational policy and/or procedure, and submitted recommendations for corrective action which were subsequently adopted by the agency. None of the above. 7 The Curriculum Developer develops curricula within the field of corrections using completed studies, occupational analyses, available data, surveys, job performance requirements, training objectives, and skill requirements.&nbsp; He/she plans, coordinates, and develops instruction based on the findings of occupational analysis, and develops, reviews, and revises instructional materials for courses or occupations according to specific learning objectives. Performs duties related to designing or developing criteria for designing training aids and devices based on needs analysis of the instruction systems. Plans, coordinates, develops, reviews, or evaluates education or training programs for total support in the area of corrections to include equipment, weapons, facilities, budget, and other resource requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a subject matter expert (SME) in the development of training courses, visual aids, handouts and activities for course support; and/or I have developed curriculum and lesson plans for training at the institution/local level; and/or I have facilitated a job task analysis to develop curriculum and training aids. I have coordinated and conducted evaluations to create an instructional program and curricula for an emerging specialty area; and/or I have developed, reviewed and revised instructional courses using methodologies such as individualized instruction, job performance aids, video/workbook packages, simulation, interactive video disk and computer based instructions; and/or I have developed and implemented plans to measure achievement of instructional methods; and/or I have led a workgroup to develop interagency curriculum and lesson plans. I have consulted with subject matter experts (SME) in order to revise existing training programs and lesson plans; and/or I have developed basic learning objectives and other instruments to measure student achievements and adequacy of instruction; and/or I have developed lesson plans and curricula to teach inmates. None of the above. 8 The Curriculum Developer performs a range of duties with respect to specific courses and programs as the design, presentation, and oversight of course modules on supervisory and management skills; cross-cultural effectiveness; Myers-Briggs Type Indicator; management and leadership; interpersonal, communication and writing skills; conflict resolution; time management skills and team building skills.&nbsp; To effectively perform the duties associated with this position, he/she must possess strong verbal communication and facilitation skills, as he/she is responsible for coordinating, conducting and facilitating a variety of meetings, panels, and discussions to achieve results desired by the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations or lesson plans that are utilized to train or inform participants at a national level; and/or I have presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors and upper level managers. I have provided training on various topics at the institutional level using one type of training/instructional methods; and//or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have presented information on policy and procedures to executive staff and responded to questions accurately and appropriately. I have assisted with training or instructional events such as Annual Training; and/or I have worked as a teaching assistant; and/or I have assisted primary instructor in presentation of course material. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).