Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which statement best describes your experience supervising staff or team projects? Answer to this question is required I supervised staff by setting goals and priorities, assigning work, evaluating performance, and holding employees accountable for results. I led staff or teams by assigning work and monitoring progress but did not have full supervisory authority. I served as a team lead or project lead without responsibility for performance evaluation. I have not supervised staff. 3 Which of the following reflect your experience managing workforce and resources or team projects? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed workload priorities. I have managed training or spending plans to support organizational goals. I have adjusted work assignments or schedules to meet changing priorities. I have managed resources under established direction. I have no experience in this area. 4 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have provided my expertise in guiding ethical collections stewardship; evaluated, incorporated, and communicated the latest developments in collections stewardship practice; and provided expertise in the design and implementation of organization-wide guidelines, policies, and procedures. I have provided advice on complex stewardship issues; used expertise to identify and resolve conflicts pertaining to collections procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies. I have made recommendations to develop effective collections policies and procedures and gathered information from internal and external stakeholders. I have education or training in writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience strategizing, developing, and implementing plans, policies, and procedures for collection-related work? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have developed and written comprehensive, formal policies and procedures covering multiple facets of collections work, including collections access, collecting plans, systems for processing new materials, and the preservation and security of collection items. I have created program-wide registration and conservation policies and procedures in a museum or cultural institution setting. I have drafted collections-focused policies and procedures for review by a supervisor in a museum or cultural institution setting. I have prepared informal collections-related documents, such as standard operating procedures (SOPs), for internal team use. I have reviewed and implemented existing department-wide policies but have not contributed to their development or revision. I have not performed any of these tasks. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience leading and managing a diverse staff in the oversight and management of a sizable Native American collection, to include historical/archaeological information and accession and catalogue data, in a museum, cultural or historic organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed a Native American collections program to include oversight of a diverse staff performing a variety of duties related to historical/archaeological information and accessions/catalogue data, in a museum or learning institution. I have been a team member in a Native American collections program with a diverse staff performing a variety of duties related to historical/archaeological information and accessions/catalogue data, in a museum or learning institution. I have had academic training in the management of Native American collections program with a concentration in historical/archaeological information and accession and catalogue data. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your experience documenting museum collection objects and creating catalog records in an automated collections information system? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have developed and written comprehensive, formal policies and procedures covering multiple facets of collections work, including collections access, collecting plans, systems for processing new materials, and the preservation and security of collection items. I have also gathered object-related information, applied classification methods or systems, used standard naming conventions (e.g., materials, techniques, geographic locations, dates), and produced condition reports using my understanding of collections care and condition concerns. I have documented museum collection objects by compiling information and entering object catalog records into an automated collections system I have completed formal coursework or training in museum cataloguing, but I have limited or no hands-on experience documenting objects in a collections system. I have not performed any of these tasks. 8 Which of the following describe your experience relating to using, analyzing, and evaluating museum, library, or archives collections information technologies and concepts? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working with at least one contemporary, multi-module museum, library, or archives collections information system, for example Axiell Collections, EMu, TMS, CollectionsSpace, CollectiveAccess, or ArchivesSpace. I have independently identified functional requirements to support, develop, or improve upon digital systems or workflows in a museum, library, or archives setting. I have independently researched and identified technologies that could be employed to meet functional requirements and support, develop, or improve upon digital systems or workflows in a museum, library, or archives setting. I have independently researched and identified technologies that could be employed to make museum, library, or archives collections data more interoperable or accessible. I have evaluated new technologies or product offerings against a defined need or requirement. I have implemented or incorporated new technology into a collections information system or data ecosystem, for example installing a new module or user application. I have defined data elements, data relationships, and/or data tables in a museum, library, or archives collections information system. I have prepared data crosswalks between existing or new systems. I have no experience using, analyzing, or evaluating museum, library, or archives collections information technologies and concepts. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing complex collection-related issues, identifying alternatives, and proposing or presenting viable solutions? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have served as the collections lead on a museum-wide exhibition or project team and have addressed collections-care and preservation concerns, proposed solutions. I have served as the collections lead on a museum-wide exhibition or project team and have addressed collections-care and preservation concerns, proposed solution I have given presentations or made recommendations to senior or high-level staff regarding collections-related challenges, options, or decisions. I have delivered oral presentations to internal people on collections-related topics, issues, or projects. I have limited experience participating in discussions about collection-related problems but have not been responsible for identifying solutions or presenting recommendations. I have not performed any of these tasks. 10 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience communicating regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have developed and communicated long-term strategic collections policies, procedures, and training; created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out collections program initiatives; and established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. I have communicated organizational collections policies and procedures and developed plans to address areas needing improvement; and reevaluated current procedures and suggested improvements to ensure strategic collections goals. I have developed project teams and staffing plans based on consideration of strategic collections objectives and developed collections-related training for staff. I have education or training in communicating regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience communicating regarding collections works. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.