Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience supervising or managing a workforce that provided improved services to customers considering organizational goals, budget constraints, and staffing needs and responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing pipefitting tasks to ensure proper completion. As a team leader, I have reviewed the work of employees performing pipefitting tasks to ensure proper completion. I have provided instructions to demonstrations to workers performing pipefitting tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 4 Which response best describes your highest level of experience in pipefitting? Answer to this question is required I have journey level experience performing pipefitting and plumbing work independently. I am extremely knowledgeable and skilled in complex methods of working with piping and making equipment and fitting connections, including soldered, screwed, flanged, clamped and other mechanical joints. I have experience working from blueprints and sketches. I have journey level experience performing pipefitting and plumbing work with minimal supervision independently making judgments and decisions regarding technical procedures and techniques on installations. I have career-related experience and training, and experience performing pipefitting/plumbing tasks under normal supervision. I have experience and training which demonstrates knowledge of pipefitting/plumbing in a limited capacity under close supervision I do not have experience doing the work of a pipefitter or plumber. 5 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience applying safety practices at work. Answer to this question is required I personally adhered to existing safety practices on the job. I ensured that other workers adhered to existing safety practices. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required. I have reminded co-workers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of myself and others when performing work tasks. I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. None of the above. 6 Select pipefitting work you performed that demonstrates your knowledge and ability. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, set up, and performed complex modifications to fire sprinkler piping systems requiring changes in layout, assembly, adjustment, and testing of parts to meet desired specifications. Installed, modified, and repaired fire sprinkler piping systems and equipment; planned and completed the routing and placement of systems leading to the equipment; determined and placed the equipment at the proper levels and points in the system; and joined, sealed and tested the systems and equipment for proper pressure, leak-free joints, and operation. Repaired, modified, installed, and tested sections of piping systems with normal supervisory assistance. Cut, bent, assembled, and installed pipe, fittings, and fixtures in constructing and repairing fire sprinkler piping systems. Cut pipe, installed hangers and brackets, and replaced valve washers, worn nuts and bolts. None of the above. 7 Explain when you performed pipe fitting duties and how you improved that task.&nbsp; What role did you play in each of these tasks? Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Describe your experience using an electronic Building Automation System (BAS) to remotely operate, monitor and manage commercial plumbing systems to include pumps, heaters, valves, etc. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in the above I have some experience in the above I have no experience in the above 9 Which layout tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 10 Which resource documents have you interpreted and applied to perform pipefitting work? Answer to this question is required Written call assignments Building plans/floor plans Schematics Cut sheets Manufacturer`s specifications Blueprints Drawings Charts Policies and procedures None of the above 11 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience performing welding duties: Answer to this question is required I have independently performed all of the following duties. I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of the following duties: complete penetration as well as complete fusion of base and filler metals; brazing soldering, flame and arc cutting, surface hardening, annealing, and metal spraying; full range of ironwork skills; and laying out and cutting steel in close tolerances. I have performed the majority of the following duties with minimal supervision: brazing soldering, flame and arc cutting, surface hardening, annealing, and metal spraying; made a wide-range of welds, from simple to precision welding, including welds of dissimilar metals. I have performed the majority of the following duties under close supervision: the ability to perform the full range of duties of a welder, use templates, jigs, blueprints and other guides to repair, modify or fabricate metal items, welds metal parts and structures, in situations that require more than ordinary skill and care, with close supervision. My experience does not match any of the statements above. 12 Which pipefitting-related tools or equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Hand-held snake / drain cleaning machine Hand snake / auger Rooter machines Submersible pumps SeeSnake / recordable sewer pipe camera Carbon dioxide / electric freeze kits T-drill Voltmeter None of the above 13 Select the statement that best describes your ability to locate the cause of problems in pipefitting systems and equipment. Answer to this question is required Isolated and repaired unusual operational failures and malfunctions when documentation and operation knowledge are not available. Traced and located the cause of malfunctions; identified the type and extent of repairs needed; performed tests of piping systems and supporting or controlling devices; and resolved the problem. Skilled in the use of precision tools such as micrometers, feeler gauges, calipers, torque wrenches, brazing equipment, and pipe bending machines. Detected malfunctions in most low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment; determined corrective measures; and make repairs. Used tools and equipment such as dividers, grinders, reamers, pipe wrenches, hand and power pipe threaders and cutters, flanges, sliding squares, plumb bobs, mercury gauges, and hydrostatic testing equipment. Located and stopped leaks by replacing washers in fixtures; located and cleared obstructions in piping by cleaning and replacing traps and nozzles; and removed and placed worn or broken bolts, nuts, and gaskets in flange connections. None of the above. 14 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience trouble shooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbook) or relied on my previous experiences to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures/documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. None of the above. 15 Which of the following piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Steam heating Steam generation Flash and expansion tanks Condensate Vacuum Fire sprinkler systems Circulating pumps Radiators Commercial kitchen equipment None of the above 16 Have you explained proper methods for installing fixtures, pumps, sprinkler and domestic water systems to others? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 What supervisory tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates Completed performance appraisals for subordinates Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage, Overtime, and applied policy/procedures accordingly to hold employees accountable Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances Acted on disciplinary matters. Made recommendations for employee personnel action requests. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and identified personal protective equipment. None of the above. 18 Describe a time when you managed a complex plumbing or pipefitting project. What was your goal, role, and what challenges were encountered? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.