Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Regional Accountant must prepare, develop, or revise financial policies, procedures, and documents that are needed to maintain the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted dunning letters to creditors; and/or I have corresponded with vendors concerning invoicing discrepancies; and/or I have provided updates on projects to supervisors; and/or I have composed general memorandum to staff regarding internal office procedures. I have drafted debt management letters to staff and vendors outlining the agency’s debt management policy and procedures; and/or I have prepared complete and accurate explanations for proof check differences that were sent to the Regional and Headquarters; and/or I have drafted Operation Review or internal audit findings that clearly identified the finding; and/or I have prepared log entries and evaluations for staff. I have prepared responses to Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums; and/or I have drafted correspondence for the Chief Executive Officer’s signature; and/or I have prepared requests for write off’s or general ledger adjustments that completely detailed the problem and the solution; and/or I have drafted internal procedures or Institutional Supplements that were put into use; and/or I have drafted Program Review or comparable external audition findings that clearly identified the finding. None of the above. 4 The Regional Accountant must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts in providing financial guidance, implementing/modifying accounting systems, and resolving accounting issues for the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with outside agencies to resolve Intra Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) problems; and/or I have met with Office of Inspector General auditors and answered questions concerning their review and findings; and/or I have met with and trained agency staff on financial systems, such as the on line airfare booking site and the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) travel program; and/or I have contacted the Treasury Department regarding disbursements and deposits. I have coordinated efforts in completing office projects; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from vendors and staff concerning payments and reimbursements; and/or I have conducted cashier transactions during cashier hours; and/or I have supervised inmates on a work detail. I have met with departmental managers to discuss obligation errors; and/or I have met with and provided guidance on travel regulations to staff; and/or I have met with subordinates to discuss log entries and evaluations; and/or I have met with the Industry staff to negotiate the local reimbursable agreement. None of the above. 5 The Regional Accountant must be able to interpret and apply financial policies, procedures, and guidelines in order to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of government resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the Federal Travel Regulations guidelines to prepare travel settlements; and/or I have used the prompt payment act to prepare vendor payments; and/or I have used debt management policies to issue dunning notices; and/or I have prepared the monthly proof check and reconciled differences; and/or I have reconciled statement of differences with Treasury. I have reconciled daily FMIS disbursement reports to FMIS upload reports; and/or I have reviewed incoming vendor invoices to determine if proper; and/or I have reviewed outstanding travel advance reports to ensure timely travel settlements. I have pre-audited travel settlements to ensure the reimbursement was within the guidelines established by the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) before sub certifying the payment; and/or I have pre-audited vendor payments and conducted quality control reviews to ensure the requirements of the prompt payment act were being followed; and/or I have conducted program and operational reviews, or external and internal audits; and/or I have reviewed the monthly proof check to ensure difference were reconciled and corrective action was taken. None of the above. 6 The Regional Accountant must analyze, draw conclusions, and make determinations regarding financial management in order to derive solutions to current accounting problems and prevent future problems from occurring. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored the general ledger accounts to detect improper balances and took corrective action when necessary; and/or I have monitored Asset Recognition Forms and real property Sentry transactions to identify prior period adjustments and submitted requests for adjustment to headquarters; and/or I have ensured necessary corrective action was taken in response to Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums; and/or I have conducted cash verifications to determine overages or shortages; and/or I have conducted prompt payment quality control reviews to determine compliance. I have prepared and reconciled monthly proof checks, which included complete descriptions of the problem and corrective action; and/or I have monitored treasury financial reports for statements of differences; and/or I have conducted pre-audits on payment vouchers before sub-certifying the payment to ensure proper steps were taken to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse; and/or I have reviewed obligations on an ongoing basis and made adjustments when necessary. I have reconciled vendor monthly statements to paid and outstanding invoices; and/or I have compared the FMIS GL accounts to the corresponding subsidiary records; and/or I have reviewed and approved journal vouchers; and/or I have balanced the Financial Management System to the FMIS. None of the above. 7 The Regional Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to properly record accounting data, determine the accuracy of financial information, and take corrective action.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed income statements, cash flow, and owner’s equity sheet; and/or I have processed accountant payables and receivables; and/or I have reconciled accounts; and/or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have balanced bank records. I have ensured payments were made on time according to the Prompt Payment Act; and/or I have monitored the general ledger accounts for improper balances and takes corrective action when necessary; and/or I have reconciled and corrected differences between the Financial Management Information System and the subsidiary records, such as Sentry. I have processed vendor payment vouchers; and/or I have recorded obligations and ensured they were properly classified as accounts payable or undelivered goods; and/or I have calculated staff travel reimbursements; and/or I have processed dunning letters to creditors. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Regional Accountant must prepare, develop, or revise financial policies, procedures, and documents that are needed to maintain the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared responses to Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums; and/or I have drafted correspondence for the Chief Executive Officer’s signature; and/or I have prepared requests for write off’s or general ledger adjustments that completely detailed the problem and the solution; and/or I have drafted internal procedures or Institutional Supplements that were put into use; and/or I have drafted Program Review or comparable external audition findings that clearly identified the finding. I have drafted debt management letters to staff and vendors outlining the agency’s debt management policy and procedures; and/or I have prepared complete and accurate explanations for proof check differences that were sent to the Regional and Headquarters; and/or I have drafted Operation Review or internal audit findings that clearly identified the finding; and/or I have prepared log entries and evaluations for staff. I have prepared responses to Congressional Inquiries and Department of Justice Data Calls; and/or I have drafted revisions to program statements and operations memorandums; and/or I have prepared correspondence for the Executive Staff’s signature; and/or I have drafted Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums issued to the field. None of the above. 4 The Regional Accountant must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts in providing financial guidance, implementing/modifying accounting systems, and resolving accounting issues for the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with staff of other agencies within the Department to develop criteria for new accounting and travel systems; and/or I have met with vendors that provide agency wide services, such as recovery audits and the home sale program, to set agency guidelines; and/or I have met with Office of Inspector General auditors to provide insight on the agency’s programs that are being audited. I have met with outside agencies to resolve Intra Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) problems; and/or I have met with Office of Inspector General auditors and answered questions concerning their review and findings; and/or I have met with and trained agency staff on financial systems, such as the online airfare booking site and the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) travel program; and/or I have contacted the Treasury Department regarding disbursements and deposits. I have met with departmental managers to discuss obligation errors; and/or I have met with and provided guidance on travel regulations to staff; and/or I have met with subordinates to discuss log entries and evaluations; and/or I have met with the Industry staff to negotiate the local reimbursable agreement. None of the above. 5 The Regional Accountant must be able to interpret and apply financial policies, procedures, and guidelines in order to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of government resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the Federal Travel Regulations guidelines to prepare travel settlements; and/or I have used the prompt payment act to prepare vendor payments; and/or I have used debt management policies to issue dunning notices; and/or I have prepared the monthly proof check and reconciled differences; and/or I have reconciled statement of differences with Treasury. I have participated in a management assessment to establish program review or equivalent guidelines that identified waste, fraud, and abuse; and/or I have established systemic controls when participating in the development of new financial systems, such as e-travel and the Unified Financial Management System; and/or I have developed a new section to the proof check which captured previously unreconciled data; and/or I have drafted an Institutional Supplement that established financial management guidelines. I have pre-audited travel settlements to ensure the reimbursement was within the guidelines established by the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) before sub certifying the payment; and/or I have pre-audited vendor payments and conducted quality control reviews to ensure the requirements of the prompt payment act were being followed; and/or I have conducted program and operational reviews, or external and internal audits; and/or I have reviewed the monthly proof check to ensure difference were reconciled and corrective action was taken. None of the above. 6 The Regional Accountant must analyze, draw conclusions, and make determinations regarding financial management in order to derive solutions to current accounting problems and prevent future problems from occurring. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored the general ledger accounts to detect improper balances and took corrective action when necessary; and/or I have monitored Asset Recognition Forms and real property Sentry transactions to identify prior period adjustments and submitted requests for adjustment to headquarters; and/or I have ensured necessary corrective action was taken in response to Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums; and/or I have conducted cash verifications to determine overages or shortages; and/or I have conducted prompt payment quality control reviews to determine compliance. As a member of a task force, I have developed a new financial management system, such as the Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) or e-travel; and/or I have researched accounting data crosswalks from subsidiary accounting systems to Financial Management Information System to ensure data is captured; and/or I have reviewed audit findings to identify trends and areas of risk which require changes to policy. I have prepared and reconciled monthly proof checks, which included complete descriptions of the problem and corrective action; and/or I have monitored treasury financial reports for statements of differences; and/or I have conducted pre-audits on payment vouchers before sub-certifying the payment to ensure proper steps were taken to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse; and/or I have reviewed obligations on an ongoing basis and made adjustments when necessary. None of the above. 7 The Regional Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to properly record accounting data, determine the accuracy of financial information, and take corrective action.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed vendor payment vouchers; and/or I have recorded obligations and ensured they were properly classified as accounts payable or undelivered goods; and/or I have calculated staff travel reimbursements; and/or I have processed dunning letters to creditors. I have ensured payments were made on time according to the Prompt Payment Act; and/or I have monitored the general ledger accounts for improper balances and takes corrective action when necessary; and/or I have reconciled and corrected differences between the Financial Management Information System and the subsidiary records, such as Sentry. I have ensured generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) were built into new financial management systems; and/or I have compiled and presented financial data requested by auditors; and/or I have reviewed field submissions in response to Audit Guidance and Finance Branch Memorandums; and/or I have conducted training at a Regional or National level; and/or I have reviewed prior period adjustment requests from the field for accuracy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).