Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 6 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 7 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience that employed strategic thinking skills. I have education, training, or experience where strategic thinking was employed. I have training and education that employed strategic thinking but have not used these skills on the job. I have experience, but no training or educational basis for the use of strategic thinking. 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 5 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience handling multiple priorities and competing deadlines: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 10 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience that employed strategic thinking skills. I have education, training, or experience where strategic thinking was employed. I have training and education that employed strategic thinking but have not used these skills on the job. I have experience, but no training or educational basis for the use of strategic thinking. 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 5 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience handling multiple priorities and competing deadlines: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 10 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.