Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 General Maintenance Mechanics must have the ability to lead contractors, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have estimated materials, equipment and workforce needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal/informal training to members of a work crew, apprentices or intermediate workers; and/or I have worked as a contractor in line of work. I have organized work assignments for small groups of workers; and/or I have completed work in a timely manner effectively; and/or I have ordered the proper and correct number of materials; and/or I have explained the completed task or work procedures. None of the above. 3 General Maintenance Mechanics must have the ability to assemble, make, install, test, repair, and perform the tasks of the position. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have served at the journeyman level in maintaining/building and installation of major building components in hospitals, schools or large industrial buildings, etc.; and/or I have assembled large complex components with little assistance. I have instructed and provided technical direction to crew members regarding the repair/installation of systems (i.e., water supply, electrical, air conditioning); and/or I have diagnosed equipment failures and determined remedy when other competent workers have failed to find the source of the failure. I have sought advice and guidance to solve issues/problems encountered; and/or I have performed routine maintenance and repairs on building systems but needed assistance for tasks that required the application of new knowledge; and/or I have, under close supervision, monitored the installation of utility systems. None of the above. 4 General Maintenance Mechanics must have knowledge and ability of the functions performed in the shop and in the field under different work situations, such as precise taking measurements and keeping strict tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other practices used in construction and maintenance activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed all types of construction and maintenance work while self-employed; and/or I have planned, laid out, set up and carried through all phases to complete jobs which are rated as difficult in the trade; and/or I have constructed garages and sheds, remodeled interiors of homes, converted basements into recreation rooms, etc.; and/or I have converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications, including price estimates; and/or I have performed troubleshooting including mechanical and electrical repairs for a small plant; and/or I have repaired or altered various articles and end equipment; and/or I have erected partitions and made alterations to rooms and offices. I have worked as an assistant to a self-employed construction or maintenance man; and/or I have performed various types of construction or maintenance tasks as instructed; and/or I have worked as a crew member for a building contractor; and/or I have erected other framework, laid sub-flooring and performed other tasks as directed. I have worked as a carpenter, brick-mason, or other construction work for homebuilders; and/or I have, as a crew member, performed assigned tasks under the supervision of a foreman; and/or I have worked as a sub-contractor for finish work in homes being constructed; and/or I have independently performed the trade involved. None of the above. 5 General Maintenance Mechanics must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, (i.e., blueprints, manuals, sketches, and work orders), well enough to understand dimensions, shapes, materials, and finishing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used engineer’s blueprints for model homes and translated for material requirements; and/or I have produced sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work for strict compliance with blueprint specifications; and/or I have, while self-employed, converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications; and/or I have sketched drawings and estimated materials from specifications. I have followed blueprints and drawings to assemble prepared materials; and/or I have followed sketches and instructions from the crew leader in performing required tasks. I have followed drawings and blueprints or all types of construction and maintenance tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have sketched rough drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from section foreman to perform all types of construction and maintenance work. None of the above. 6 General Maintenance Mechanics must have knowledge of and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment of several trades, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I possesses a well-grounded knowledge of hand and power tools relevant to the general building trade; and/or I have utilized power and hand tools to maintain and operate building systems (i.e., air conditioning, boilers, and water treatment plants). I have instructed and provided technical direction in the use of various hand tools and equipment required to perform tasks; and/or I have determined proper operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunction are found; and/or I have instructed others in the use of all hand and power tools for the general building trade while self-employed. I have applied knowledge of the equipment to use properly on routine tasks and sought assistance for more complex projects; and/or I have, as a crew member, used hand tools and limited experience using basic power tools; and/or I have have basic knowledge of equipment but lack practical experience. None of the above. 7 General Maintenance Mechanics must have knowledge of the properties, purposes and uses of the various materials used in the general building trades. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with all types of materials used in building framework; and/or I have assembled building components, as instructed, using proper size and type of nails, screws, bolts, etc.; and/or I have, as a crew member, became familiar with various materials used in the finish work of several trades in the construction field. I have, while self-employed, determined the type of materials to be used for jobs; and/or I have inspected, accepted and rejected material to guarantee quality and adherence; and/or I have, from specifications, ordered and inspected quality of bricks, blocks, lumber, tile, etc.; and/or I have, as a maintenance worker in a plant or factory, determined types of materials needed for alterations; and/or I have estimated and ordered all materials necessary to perform a wide variety of remodeling and alterations and repairs. I have experience in determining the type of materials needed from specifications, based on knowledge of materials; and/or I have, as a sub-contractor, determined the proper material for various types of finishing work performed. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).