Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following tools do you have experience using independently in the context of a construction project? Answer to this question is required Submittal reviews Shop drawings Specifications (CSI) Architectural finish materials Details Elevations Sections Architectural and interior design floor plans Mechanical and electrical engineering plans Security engineering plans Lighting and power data plans None of the above 2 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing technical security designs. Answer to this question is required I have prepared implemented field changes to technical security designs. I have prepared technical security designs for residential environments. I have prepared technical security designs for commercial environments. I have prepared technical security designs for government environments. I have prepared technical security designs for incorporation into architectural design packages. I have prepared technical security designs for use as standard or policy documents. None of the above. 3 Which statement(s) indicate your experience working with security standards, policies, procedure, and practices? Answer to this question is required I have had approval authority on implementation of security standards and policies. I have participated in working groups as a subject matter expert (SME) to develop security standards, policies, procedures, and practices. I have advised senior management on the implementation of security standards, policies, procedures, and practices. I have experience implementing security standards, policies, procedures, and practices. None of the above. 4 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully implemented. Answer to this question is required Dignitary Protection Force Protection High-threat Security Protective Liaison Guard Force Operations First responder/ First Aid Chemical/ Biological Response Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security None of the above 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and manage projects through completion Established and monitor project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitor performance Anticipated and resolve problems None of the above 6 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 7 From the following list, select the interpersonal communication skills that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 8 Please indicate the types of resources you have allocated across a wide range of security programs? Answer to this question is required Logistical Workforce Operational Financial None of the above 9 In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 10 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.