Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select from the descriptions below the response that BEST describes your experience researching, analyzing and interpreting human resources management and federal personnel employment laws, rules and regulations: Answer to this question is required I have conducted research and analysis to provide recommendations and influence the formulation and development of human resources employment policy. I have utilized various sources such as the Title 5 USC, 5 CFR, Merit Systems Protection Board, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines to perform daily work. I have conducted research and provided analysis for managements use in identifying current skill sets, skill gap closure techniques and facilitated recruitment, training / development, performance management and retention strategies. I have conducted research and analysis of human resources laws, regulations and best practices in order to develop methods and procedures for implementation to improve and enhance human resource programs in relationship to an organizations mission and strategic goals and objectives. None of the above. 2 I have provided human resources advisory service in the following specialty areas. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resources Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Senior Executive Service Political Appointees Executive Development None of the Above 3 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 4 Select the personnel management related activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Establishes guidelines and performance expectations for subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Evaluates job performance of subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Develops work improvement plans, recommending personnel actions as necessary. Provides advice and counsel to workers related to work and administrative matters. Provides informal feedback and periodically evaluates employee performance. Hears and/or resolves complaints and grievances from employees. Provides advice, counsel or instruction to individual employees. Plans work to be accomplished by subordinates, setting priorities, and scheduling completion. Counsels subordinates regarding career potential and opportunities. Identifies training needs for subordinate staff and schedules necessary training. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.