Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Review and integrate into content development sentiment analysis reports and other forms of audience research. Review and integrate content performance data into future content development. Coordinate content strategy with requirements of broad messaging campaigns. Review and approve story pitches. Oversee content development teams that include writers, photo editors, and graphic designers. Edit content directly within a WordPress system. Edit content that describes official policies of the United States government. Edit content that depicts aspects of American society, culture, and life. None of the above. 2 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I do not have the education, training or experienced in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following best describes your background in the design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues I have education or training in design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed work in design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work in design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled performing work in design and management of public opinion survey research on political, economic and/or social issues, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance 5 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 6 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.