Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 2 Please select from the list below situations in which you have developed and recommended policy: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 3 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have produced a technical or policy report that relayed the implications of findings to a larger context I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue I have produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results I have collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue None of the above 4 Which of the following types of analyses have you performed in support of policy development? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or Financial Sociological Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Verification of and/or compliance with international agreements, commitments, and regimes Counterterrorism Legal None of the Above 5 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 7 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on issues where there are conflicting positions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written analytical technical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical technical reports for external audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefing materials for program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 9 Which statement(s) describe your experience drafting written material? Answer to this question is required I have written analytical / technical reports. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures. I have written documents to defend a position and persuade others. None of the above. 10 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.