Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 98 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement below best describes your highest level of education? Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s degree in Construction Management, Engineering, Architecture, Planning, Public Administration, Facilities Management, Project Management or a related field from an accredited college or university. I have a master's degree in Construction Management, Engineering, Architecture, Planning, Public Administration, Facilities Management, Project Management or a related field from an accredited college or university. I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. I have a master’s degree from an accredited college or university. None of the above. 2 Select the response that most accurately identifies your experience. Answer to this question is required I have ten (10) years of capital projects, design, planning, facilities management and construction related experience of which six (6) years must demonstrate substantial leadership and management responsibility. I have more than ten (10) years of capital projects, design, planning, facilities management and construction related experience of which six (6) years must demonstrate substantial leadership and management responsibility. I have less than ten (10) years of capital projects, design, planning, facilities management and construction related experience. None of the above. 3 Which budget responsibilities have you performed? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have managed a personnel services budget I have managed a non-personnel services budget I have developed a personnel services budget for submission to my supervisor I have developed a non-personnel services budget for submission to my supervisor I have developed a personnel services budget for submission to executive officials I have developed a non-personnel services budget for submission to executive officials I have developed a budget requesting new or additional resources New or additional resources were approved as a result of my budget request I have no experience with budgets 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience collecting, interpreting and analyzing data to measure and improve program effectiveness or productivity? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 5 Do you have experience developing, implementing, and monitoring new initiatives, projects or programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which statement best describes your experience preparing and presenting reports to executive level managers? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 7 I have experience leading and managing teams to complete projects or initiatives. Answer to this question is required True False 8 Which response best describes your experience in developing budget requests and related supporting documentation? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior coworker who ensured compliance with correct procedures. This task has been a central or major part of my work. Due to my expertise in this area, I instructed other workers in the performance of this task. 9 I have earned a Project Management Professional (PMP) certification. Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).