Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Specialized experience is experience serving as a special agent responsible for planning and conducting highly complex investigations; preparing clear and concise investigative reports; training others in investigative and administrative matters/procedures; coordinating case assignments and reviews; preparing information for presentation to high-level agency officials as well as officials of other federal law enforcement agencies; demonstrating comprehensive knowledge of Federal statutes and regulations, rules of evidence, court decisions, constitutional rights, search and seizure, methods of interview and interrogation, and admissibility of confessions; working with federal prosecutors to prepare cases for trial; maintaining effective working relationships and cooperating with others. 1 Do you have one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as stated above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-14 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-13 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 Do you possess a valid U.S. driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you possess, or are you willing to obtain and maintain throughout the length of the appointment, a Top Secret national security clearance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 This position requires you to submit to pre-appointment and random drug testing. Are you willing to undergo pre-appointment and random drug tests? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 This position is located in the city, state stated in announcement. Employees are required to commute to the physical duty location on a daily basis. Are you willing to accept a position in this city, state? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 This position authorizes the incumbent to carry a firearm. Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 922(g)(91)). Candidates under consideration will be required to certify whether they have ever been convicted of such an offense. False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment (Title 18, U.S.C., Section 1001). Do you certify that you qualify under the Lautenberg Amendment because you have NOT been convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Medical Requirements: The duties of positions in this GS-1811 series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving running, bending, walking, searching crime scenes for evidence, recording crime scenes using photography or sketches, conducting covert and overt surveillance, interviewing suspects and providing written reports, administering oaths, carrying and potentially using firearms, serving search warrants and subpoenas, performing searches, apprehending suspects, driving, lifting, climbing, and using specialized equipment. Are you able to perform these functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you successfully completed the Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Glynco, Georgia, or another Federal equivalent criminal investigator training program, such as the FBI Special Agent training program or Military Criminal Investigative Organization equivalent? (Note: Tribal, State, and local law enforcement academy training does not meet this requirement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).