Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience conducting research in the nationality laws of the United States. Answer to this question is required Published in peer review journal. Created working papers or research reports. Completed a dissertation. Completed a master's thesis. Presented paper(s) at professional conferences. Written policy position papers / briefs. None of the above 4 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 5 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 7 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 8 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers / briefs. None of the above 9 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Discipline Awards Leave Scheduling Staffing Conflict resolution Coaching and or counseling Labor relations Team, project, and/or task leader I have no supervisory experience 10 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience in preparing a variety of correspondence including briefing materials for senior level officials? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have had training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have not had experience in performing these tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.