Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of digital curation and descriptive tools, information technologies and integrated library systems to support archival functions. ** Used digital curation tools, descriptive tools, software and spreadsheets, and/or online databases to carry out archival functions. Answer to this question is required Applied in-depth knowledge of digital curation and descriptive tools, software and spreadsheets, and other technologies to arrange and describe large and/or complex analog and digital collections of archival materials in a library/archive setting. For example, independently used digital tools to transfer large files, extract complex metadata, identify Personal Identify Information (PII), and create disk images; used EAD software to encode finding aids and spreadsheets to create inventories; and complete complex searches in integrated library systems and online databases. Applied knowledge of digital curation and descriptive tools, software and spreadsheets, and other technologies to arrange and describe large and/or complex analog and digital collections of archival materials in a library/archive setting. For example, used EAD software to encode finding aids and spreadsheets to create inventories, and complete complex searches in integrated library systems and online databases. Applied knowledge of digital curation and descriptive tools, software and spreadsheets, and other technologies to arrange and describe small or uniform analog and digital collections of archival materials in a library/archive setting. For example, used EAD software to encode finding aids and spreadsheets to create inventories. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of American history and research sources used for processing and describing archival materials. ** Applied subject knowledge of American history to historical materials and performed research in order to process and describe archival collections. Processed and described historical collections relating to American history such as the papers of political leaders, legal or judicial figures, and people in the arts including writers, leaders in business, civil rights, the military, science, technology or the records of academic leaders. Answer to this question is required Served as an archivist in federal, state, or a manuscript depository and applied chronologic and geographic knowledge of American history materials in order to process complex and/or large archival collections. Used multiple sources and conducted complex research about historical collections, individuals or organizations in order to understand, process, and describe the material. Applied knowledge of American history materials in order to process archival collections. Evaluated, described and conducted research using a single source about historical collections, individuals or organizations in order to understand, process, and describe the material. Applied knowledge of American history materials in order to process archival collections. Conducted basic research about historical collections, individuals or organizations in order to understand, process, and describe the material. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of archival work, including analysis, organization, and description of archival material. ** Planned, managed and executed archival functions and programs in a library or cultural institution setting by applying professional knowledge of archival principles, concepts and techniques to the following: 1) appraising archival materials, 2) accessioning the receipt of new collection materials, 3) developing processing plans for archival collections, 4) arranging archival materials, and 5) describing archival materials. Answer to this question is required Applied the principles, concepts and techniques of archival work by performing ALL of the above, including analysis, organization, and description of archival material. Applied the principles, concepts and techniques of archival work by performing at least FOUR (4) of the functions listed above, including analysis, organization, and description of archival material. Applied the principles, concepts and techniques of archival work by performing at least THREE (3) of the functions listed above, including analysis, organization, and description of archival material. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform preservation duties . Performed functions related to the preservation of archival materials including: 1) surveying collections to identify and inventory materials for preservation, 2) following prescribed specifications and procedures in preserving original material and reproducing originals for preservation, 3) monitoring the quality and consistency of preservation methods and output, 4) routing materials for preservation treatment, and 5) serving as a resource in developing preservation policies and goals. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of current and emerging practices in identifying and preserving archival materials and performed ALL of the above functions. Applied knowledge of current and emerging practices in identifying and preserving archival materials and performed at least FOUR (4) of the above functions. Applied knowledge of current and emerging practices in identifying and preserving archival materials and performed at least THREE (3) of the above functions. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of reference and research services. Provided reference and instructional services to individual researchers and groups inside and outside of an organization and in doing so performed the following: 1) conducted reference interviews, 2) evaluated user needs, 3) informed users of resources available, 4) formulated search strategies, 5) performed searches for specialized materials, and 6) answered a range of reference questions. Answer to this question is required In a library or archives setting, independently performed ALL of the above reference service tasks. In a library or archives setting, independently performed FIVE (5) of the above reference service tasks. In a library or archives setting, independently performed FOUR (4) of the above reference service tasks. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to build and maintain professional relationships and provide liaison services. Established and maintained professional work relationships and exchanged information related to archival techniques and procedures with diverse audiences inside and outside the organization. Answer to this question is required Established and maintained professional work relationships and exchanged information related to complex archival techniques and procedures with diverse audiences inside and outside the organization. Coordinated with senior or executive staff in other organizations or libraries relating to transmission, handling, description, and storage of materials. Explained technical information to individuals or groups as they relate to manuscripts, archival and born digital collections. Established and maintained professional work relationships and exchanged information related to archival techniques and procedures with diverse audiences inside and outside the organization. Coordinated with staff in other organizations or libraries relating to transmission, handling, description and storage of materials. Explained technical information to individuals or groups as they relate to manuscripts, archival and born digital collections. Established and maintained professional work relationships and exchanged information related to archival techniques and procedures with diverse audiences inside the organization. Coordinated with staff in other organizations or libraries relating to transmission, handling, description and storage of materials. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).