Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR Combination of education and experience that provided the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants who are using education to qualify MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Social Science Research Analysts of the Federal Bureau of Prisons prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for internal or external publication, and briefings for national level groups. They must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, Agency officials, Congress, national and international corrections agencies.&nbsp; Often reporting will entail the construction, interpretation and description of tables and graphs.&nbsp; Written communication skills are also required for documenting research projects, data element codebooks, and computer program code. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have developed informational material regarding policies and/or goal activities; and/or I have assisted in preparing a report for a Congressional or media related audience. I have prepared statements on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have documented findings as a participant of a Program Review or comparable audit; and/or I have assisted others in preparing a technical report/document; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying decision made by agency; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures manual/procedural guide explaining a research project to staff who are responsible for various aspects of the implementation, in laymen terms. None of the above. 4 Social Science Research Analysts communicate on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. They must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to effectively communicate to targeted audiences in order to convey details, or effects of operations or programs and sell others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I participated on a work group which included members of the executive staff of other agencies; and/or I have assisted in representing the agency at a briefing with Congressional staff; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have interacted with members of the news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency or organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding public affairs issues. I have represented a division or office on a national work group; and/or I have represented an agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies personnel; and/or I have served in a leadership role on a community involvement committee; and/or I have served on labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote the agency; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated audit findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Executive Staff, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator. I have conferred with work-group members and conveyed study results; and/or I have provided in-service training to Executive Staff/top management during a scheduled meeting; and/or I have briefed top management on a non-sensitive issue. None of the above. 5 Social Science Research Analysts must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. They are charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and inmate population in order to maintain operations.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have directed or coordinated an organization’s financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. 6 Social Science Research Analysts design and participate in a variety of studies and projects which have impact on The Federal Bureau of Prisons operations and programs.&nbsp; In order to effectively complete the requirements of this position, they must possess comprehensive and extensive knowledge of the pursuit or contemporary practice of science. They must have the ability to identify relevant methods employed in any scientific discipline and adapt those methods to the practice of social science, or when necessary develop new valid reliable research methods.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a team member performing census studies; and/or I have obtained data for a project through telephone interviews; and/or I have assisted in designing a written survey. I have utilized established research methods and techniques to complete assignments; and/or I have used standard research methods to conduct analysis for higher level review and approval; and/or I have performed general research in order to determine where significant pieces of information can be obtained in order to complete assigned tasks; and/or I have assisted in designing project surveys required to gather needed information for analysis. I have applied generally accepted research methods and technologies to complete studies; and/or I have participated as a member of a team to establish assessment tools in order to validate or justify the implementation or expense of a new program; and/or I have conducted multiple research studies and projects simultaneously; and/or I have managed research studies which resulted in changes to local division/unit/office procedures or programs; and/or I have determined the most effective established alternative research method available to complete studies and achieve desired results. None of the above. 7 Social Science Research Analysts must understand and apply statistical theory using mainframe and PC level statistical software applications. The application of statistical methods also requires an understanding of data structures and data management. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used template or pre-formatted research methods to obtain statistical information; and/or I have conveyed/communicated content to a higher level analyst or project director for inclusion in a more comprehensive report; and/or I have independently performed statistical research to complete portion of larger research study. I have employed the use of multi-variate techniques while involved in a trend study; and/or I have utilized regression analysis results in writing a research report; and/or I have performed a cluster analysis. I have recommended policies and practices based on research performed using currently available and established statistical methods; and/or I have provided statistical results using historical data and clearly defined objectives of results desired; and/or I have written a program which analyzed the effects of topic assigned using current available practices and methods. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).