Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of library best practices and procedures for the lifecycle management of digital collection materials.** Applied knowledge of library or industry best practices, procedures and tools to perform digital content management functions. Activities included: 1) transferring digital content from internal or external sources; 2) reviewing incoming content for conformance to specifications and guidelines, including format and metadata technical standards; 3) performing manual or automated operations to prepare content for storage and/or presentation; and 4) implementing, testing, documenting and improving workflows for multiple streams of digital content. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of library or industry best practices, procedures and tools to perform digital content management functions for digital collection materials in a variety of formats. Demonstrated experience in ALL of the areas listed above. Applied knowledge of library or industry best practices, procedures and tools to perform digital content management functions for digital collection materials in at variety formats. Demonstrated experience in at least TWO or THREE of the areas listed above. Demonstrated knowledge or college-level proficiency of library or industry best practices, procedures and tools to perform at least TWO of the areas listed above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of metadata and metadata best practices for managing digital collections.** Applied knowledge of metadata best practices and standards in order to support the management of digital collections. Experience included work with: 1) metadata structure standards such as MARC and MODS, 2) metadata encoding standards such as XML, 3) metadata editing tools, 4) controlled vocabularies, and 5) metadata mapping. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience applying metadata standards and best practices in order to manage digital collections. Experience included utilizing ALL of the above acquire, create and/or oversee the creation of descriptive, technical nd administrative metadata for collection materials. Demonstrated experience applying metadata standards and best practices in order to manage digital collections. Experience included utilizing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above to acquire, create and/or oversee the creation of descriptive, technical and administrative metadata for collection materials. Demonstrated knowledge of or college-level proficiency in metadata standards and best practices in order to manage digital collections. Experience included utilizing with AT LEAST TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan and carry out digital content management projects. Planned and carried out digital library projects by developing, planning, and implementing solutions for managing digital content including 1) planning or organization, 2) execution, 3) balancing competing priorities, and 4) the outcome of the project. Answer to this question is required Independently led multiple digital content management projects. Used standard project management tools and techniques to identify project activities, develop schedules, and report on progress. Independently led a single digital content management project. Used standard project management tools and techniques to identify project activities, develop schedules, and report on progress. Served as a team member on one or more digital content management projects. Assisted the designated project manager to identify project activities, develop schedules, and report on progress. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation and liaison duties. Provided consultation or performed liaison duties to: 1) help solve technical problems, 2) interact collaboratively on projects, 3) contribute to the planning and implementation of workflow procedures, 4) provide input for setting production goals, 5) assist in the training or demonstration of workflows to staff, and 6) exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and provided specialized and/or technical information in the field of digital collections. Performed ALL of the above tasks. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and provided specialized and/or technical information in the field of digital collections. Performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and provided specialized and/or technical information in the field of digital collections. Performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Produced a variety of written products related to the duties of the position, including: 1) narrative and graphical reports, 2) presentations (that include narrative text, graphs, charts, tables, or other visual representation of collection development analysis), 3) descriptive memos, 4) correspondence, and 5) meeting agendas. Answer to this question is required Independently, wrote ALL of the above documents. Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote at least FOUR (4) of the above documents. With direct supervision, wrote at least THREE (3) of the above documents. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).