Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select each program area in which you have program advisory and/or implementation experience: Answer to this question is required Disciplinary and adverse actions Unacceptable performance actions Performance management programs Leave administration programs Employee assistance programs Violence in the workplace programs Employee recognition programs Federal Benefits programs Federal Retirement programs Personnel Security programs Workers Compensation programs None of the above 4 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to performance. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of performance problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of poor performance. As a technical expert in performance, I have served as an instructor and designed course materials. I am considered a technical expert as an agency advisor on performance related issues. None of the above 5 Select from the descriptions below the response that BEST describes your experience researching, analyzing and interpreting human resources management and federal personnel employment laws, rules and regulations: Answer to this question is required I have conducted research and analysis to provide recommendations and influence the formulation and development of human resources employment policy. I have utilized various sources such as the Title 5 USC, 5 CFR, Merit Systems Protection Board, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines to perform daily work. I have conducted research and provided analysis for managements use in identifying current skill sets, skill gap closure techniques and facilitated recruitment, training / development, performance management and retention strategies. I have conducted research and analysis of human resources laws, regulations and best practices in order to develop methods and procedures for implementation to improve and enhance human resource programs in relationship to an organizations mission and strategic goals and objectives. None of the above. 6 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 7 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience providing human resources advice and being viewed as an HR consultant and partner in resolving key management problems? Answer to this question is required I have met with a variety of individuals within and outside the organization to resolve issues that affect human resources programs. I have instructed, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals on sensitive human resources issues. I have played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting issues related to staffing and employment functions. I keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to better serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have experience that involves routinely working with management officials to resolve unique or complex HR issues in a way that reflects a partnership with management or shared problem solving. This includes exploring unique or untried solutions and sharing options, initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships, and soliciting feedback on programs and services. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your level of experience in providing technical expertise on a wide range of work / life programs and services? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working with work & family programs, such as the Family Medical Leave Act. I have experience working with the student loan repayment program. I have experience working with the transportation subsidies program. I have experience working with the reasonable accommodation program. I have experience dealing with the workers' compensation program. I have experience working with the alternative work (e.g., telework programs). I have experience working with the child / elder care programs. None of the above 9 Please identify the employee relations functions which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial misconduct cases. I have experience in developing and implementing new or enhanced methods tailored to the agency mission and structure. I have experience developing and presenting agency case strategy before third parties. I have experience in coordinating consultations with medical and vocational rehabilitation specialists on topics such as reasonable accommodation. I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial performance cases. None of the above 10 Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing, or administering an important program and/or significant program segment: Answer to this question is required I have issued technically authoritative interpretations and decisions regarding laws, regulations and program policies relating to the program. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies, and goals. I have set the short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work. I have set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws. I have developed and approved program procedures and practices. I have promoted program(s) and provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials. None of the above. 11 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have researched human resources data to provide recommendations that affected human resources policy. I have researched Human Resources laws using the Code of Federal Regulations, United States Code (U.S.C.), and the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions to determine the appropriate hiring authorities, designations, status codes, appointment types, etc. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to colleagues. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to management. I have researched human resources rules and regulations to persuade others to modify a decision that was previously determined. I have no experience in researching human resources issues. 12 Select the choice that BEST represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals regarding human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with individuals to resolve human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve human resources issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address human resources issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. I have experience that involves explaining regulations, agency policy and procedures to employees on human resources issues and providing background on the rationale for such policies. None of the above 13 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan and organize to meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have assessed and improved the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations in the office to meet deadlines. I have determined the order of processing for a wide range of related office activities in order to meet deadlines. I have coordinated and scheduled a variety of related office activates to avoid conflicts and ensure that predetermined deadlines are met. I have planned daily work activities to meet deadlines. I have no experience in performing this task. 14 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In which of the areas that follow have you provided advisory services on employee relations matters? Answer to this question is required Adverse actions Performance Management Conduct Performance based reduction in grade or removal Discipline Benefits Work / Life programs and services None of the above 4 Select each program area in which you have program advisory and/or implementation experience: Answer to this question is required Disciplinary and adverse actions Unacceptable performance actions Performance management programs Leave administration programs Employee assistance programs Violence in the workplace programs Employee recognition programs Federal Benefits programs Federal Retirement programs Personnel Security programs Workers Compensation programs None of the above 5 Please select the employee relations tasks which you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing leave restriction memos. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing proposals / notices of suspension. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing proposals / notices of removal. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing letters of reprimand. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing letters regarding suitability determinations. I have experience in assisting and advising management on cases dealing with disciplinary and conduct issues. None of the above 6 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to performance. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of performance problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of poor performance. As a technical expert in performance, I have served as an instructor and designed course materials. I am considered a technical expert as an agency advisor on performance related issues. None of the above 7 Please identify the employee relations functions which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial misconduct cases. I have experience in developing and implementing new or enhanced methods tailored to the agency mission and structure. I have experience developing and presenting agency case strategy before third parties. I have experience in coordinating consultations with medical and vocational rehabilitation specialists on topics such as reasonable accommodation. I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial performance cases. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your level of experience in providing technical expertise on a wide range of work / life programs and services? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working with work & family programs, such as the Family Medical Leave Act. I have experience working with the student loan repayment program. I have experience working with the transportation subsidies program. I have experience working with the reasonable accommodation program. I have experience dealing with the workers' compensation program. I have experience working with the alternative work (e.g., telework programs). I have experience working with the child / elder care programs. None of the above 9 From the list below, indicate the laws, rules and regulations that you apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended Reasonable Accommodations Program Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) None of the above 10 From the list below indicate the Office of Personnel Management regulations that you apply on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required 5 CFR 359-Removal from the senior executive service; guaranteed placement in other personnel systems. 5 CFR 430-Performance management 5 CFR 432-Performance based reduction in grade and removal actions. 5 CFR 752-Adverse actions None of the above 11 Select the statement(s) that BEST describe the technical knowledge you have provided to managers and supervisors on employee relation matters. Answer to this question is required I have advised management on appropriate procedures and practices involved in developing employee performance plans, conducting appraisal interviews, and submitting and justifying employee award nominations. have identified due process rights under applicable laws, policy, and negotiated language to provide appropriate notice to both the manager and the employee about the employee`s right and possible forums for review. I have developed and presented employee relations information for briefings, meetings, conferences, or training seminars (i.e., conduct, discipline, performance management, ethics, leave and grievance procedures). I have served as a technical advisor at MSPB or EEOC hearings. I have composed detailed written documents for management to use in effecting disciplinary actions and adverse actions. I have prepared Agency case files to be submitted to MSPB. I have developed local human resources policy for employee relations. None of the above. 12 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 13 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 14 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your experience gathering data, conducting analysis and evaluating the results. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed statistical data related to human resources management or programs to identify trends or workforce characteristics that may warrant program changes and/or enhancements. I have knowledge of a wide range of human resources concepts, principles, laws, regulations and practices sufficient to analyze and evaluate data from various human resources program areas and provide sound recommendations for program changes / improvements. I have retrieved, evaluated and analyzed data to assimilate into a report. I have gathered and analyzed human resources data and developed reports. None of the above. 15 Choose the statement(s) that describe your interpersonal communication skills that you have performed as a regular part of a human resources (HR) job. Answer to this question is required I have facilitated controversial / complex HR situations. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups on HR program or issues. I have facilitated the resolution of controversial / complex HR problems. I have developed and enhanced alliances with internal and external groups and individuals. I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to individuals and groups within and outside the office. I have communicated with managers and other Human Resources professionals to provide guidance and assistance in resolving difficult human resources issues. I have ensured that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have communicated with senior executives, managers, and individuals from the Federal, public, and private sectors to influence, recommend, and/or gain acceptance of complex and sensitive HR policies and issues. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.