Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 To be eligible for consideration to serve as a Library of Congress Intern, you: 1. Must be a U.S. citizen. 2. Must be currently enrolled at time of application in a degree-granting program of study at the undergraduate level or graduate level AND/OR have graduated or will graduate between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025.&nbsp; 3. Must be available for the full 14-week period (September 8 through December 11, 2026). Must be available to attend mandatory orientation on Tuesday, September 8, 2026.&nbsp; 4. Must be available to work a full-time, 8-hour per day, 40-hour per week schedule Monday-Friday during core business hours of 6:30 am&ndash;6:00 pm ET.&nbsp; 5. Must be able to commute to the Library of Congress main campus in Washington, DC to conduct work duties for the full 14-week period. By submitting this application: you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith. Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I certify that I meet the eligibility criteria to apply for the 2026 Summer Library of Congress Internships (LOCI) Program and that I understand that failure to submit a complete application will result in disqualification from consideration. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Have you previously held a position with the Library of Congress as an intern? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Name of your current or most recent undergraduate or graduate institution. Maximum length of 150 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Anticipated graduation date, or date of graduation if recent graduate. Note: In order to be eligible for consideration, you MUST be currently enrolled at time of application in a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning (community college, college, university, or tribal college) at the undergraduate level or graduate level AND/OR have graduated between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025. Answer to this question is required 6 List your current major(s) of study and, if applicable, your minor(s) of study. Note: your application must include a legible copy of your latest college/university transcripts OR official registrar documentation certifying enrollment in Spring 2026 or graduation in the 2025 calendar year. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable at the time of application. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable at the time of application. Transcripts must be issued by the college or university and include your name, the name of the institution, and the courses and course dates. Failure to submit the required legible documentation at the time of application will result in disqualification. All transcripts and/or registrar documents must be in PDF file format. Image files, Word documents, etc. are not acceptable. Please refer to the full vacancy announcement for more information. Maximum length of 200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 A legible copy of your latest college/university transcript OR official registrar documentation certifying enrollment in Spring 2026 or graduation in the 2025 calendar year is required with your online application. An unofficial transcript or copy of your degree are acceptable at the time of application. If you are unable to provide an unofficial transcript or copy of degree at time of application: you may submit a verified document from your institution's registrar office, a certification of enrollment via Clearinghouse, OR a copy of your degree that was obtained in 2025. Your transcript or equivalent document will be used to certify your eligibility for the program. Official transcripts will be required if selected for the position. Screenshots, JPEGS, Word or other text documents, and stand-alone course lists are not acceptable. Failure to submit the required legible documentation at the time of application will result in disqualification. Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a transcript, copy of degree, or other certified document with my application to verify that I am eligible for consideration. I understand that failure to provide valid certifying documentation will render my application ineligible for review. 8 Please select your first choice for a placement from among the following 4 onsite projects Answer to this question is required Clarice Gaylord Papers Processing Project Increasing Access to the Small Press Expo Collection Visitor Engagement (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) The Source Youth Engagement and Operations (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) 9 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected first choice project. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Please select your second&nbsp;choice for a placement from among the following 4 onsite projects Answer to this question is required Clarice Gaylord Papers Processing Project Increasing Access to the Small Press Expo Collection Visitor Engagement (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) The Source Youth Engagement and Operations (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) 11 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected second choice project. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Please select your third choice for a placement from among the following 4 onsite projects Answer to this question is required Clarice Gaylord Papers Processing Project Increasing Access to the Small Press Expo Collection Visitor Engagement (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) The Source Youth Engagement and Operations (requires intern to work Tuesday through Saturday) 13 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected third choice project. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 In the box below, please describe how the Library of Congress Internships Program relates to your overall career goals and/or how you would benefit from working on your selected projects. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you first learn about the Library of Congress Internships Program? Answer to this question is required Career fair or career event College or university career center College or university faculty Congressional referral Handshake/Symplicity Job recruitment board Library of Congress alumni referral Library of Congress blog Library of Congress employee referral Library of Congress social media (e.g., Instagram, Facebook, etc.) Library of Congress website (loc.gov) LinkedIn Search engine USAJobs Other (please specify in box below) 16 If you learned about the Library of Congress Internships Program from another source, please specify below: Maximum length of 250 characters. 17 Please share any career or internship platforms you use to search for opportunities if not noted above: Maximum length of 250 characters. By submitting this application, you attest that: 1. You meet all of the eligibility criteria. 2. You understand that failure to submit a complete application by the deadline will result in disqualification from consideration. 3. You intend to work onsite in Library of Congress Washington, DC and are available to work a full-time work schedule for the entirety of the program (September 8 to December 11, 2026).&nbsp; 4. You understand that it is your responsibility to ensure that your application is complete and accurate to the best of your knowledge by the deadline. You will not be able to update or alter your application after the deadline has passed. If you have any questions regarding this vacancy announcement or your application for the Library of Congress Internships Program, please email jobhelp@loc.gov. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).