Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area Studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchanges Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Marine Environment and Fisheries Marine Sciences and Technology Ocean Sciences and Law of the Sea Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of, and compliance with, international agreements / commitments / regimes International crimes and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption Bilateral and Multilateral Treaties None of the Above 2 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus across the government. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems that have a government-wide impact. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus across the government , and reaching solutions to controversial issues. None of the above. 3 Which individuals do you have experience persuading or influencing in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Subordinates Co-workers or peers Immediate managers High-level stakeholders (within my organization or agency) External contractors (e.g., foreign security personnel) United States diplomats Foreign diplomats or high-level stakeholders None of the above 4 Which of the following have you done that demonstrates your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have initiated an array of projects and/or activities to address an issue affecting my organization. I have significantly modified an array of existing projects and/or activities to address an issue affecting my organization. I have initiated change in my company / organization that allowed others (colleagues, clients, etc.) greater opportunity for success. I have worked on strategic planning projects under the guidance of a supervisor. None of the above. 5 Please select the types of policy strategies you have developed: Answer to this question is required Counterterrorism Political Historical Financial Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Sanctions regimes Foreign None of the above 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 7 From the choices below, please select from the following area(s) that you have experience in the development of policy towards the U.S. and International Organizations: Answer to this question is required Nonproliferation International Narcotics Trafficking Nuclear Security Peaceful uses of nuclear energy Disarmament Nuclear Safety International Crime Counterterrorism (or Terrorism Prevention) None of the above 8 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of US foreign assistance issues: Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International Organizations (IO) (members or staff) Non-governmental organization (NGO) or academic institution General public None of the Above 9 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to conventional arms transfer issues in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Research, development, testing, and production of foreign conventional weapons systems Technical specifications and capabilities of foreign conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with foreign marketing and sales of advanced conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with U.S. marketing and sales - both corporate and governmental - associated with conventional military systems U.S. and international mechanisms for controlling foreign transfer of conventional weapons to countries / entities of concern None of the above 10 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 11 Please identify, from the following list, those sectors of the Foreign Affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private Industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) National Security Agency (NSA) Department of Defense (DOD) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Homeland Security (HS) Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) International Organizations (IO) United Nations (UN) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Non-governmental organizations dealing with energy issues Non-governmental organizations dealing with economic / commercial issues Think Tanks None of the above 12 Which of the following types of analyses have you performed in support of policy development? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or Financial Sociological Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Verification of and/or compliance with international agreements, commitments, and regimes Counterterrorism Legal None of the Above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.