Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following activities related to acquisitions work in a museum have you performed independently? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have assigned accession and non-accession numbers to new acquisitions. I have established and documented legal title and ownership. I have reviewed accession documentation to verify legal title, and determined any restrictions. I have analyzed accession documentation and written reports based on the analysis. I have determined and documented intellectual property rights. I have documented and maintained information on acquisitions in a collections information database and paper records. I have reconciled and resolved problems among official registration records, curatorial files, and objects. I have completed IRS form 8283 and form 990. I have processed deaccession and disposal actions to completion, and documented these actions in a collections information database and paper records. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with ethical principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, inventory, and tracking of museum objects? Answer to this question is required I have experience in the ethical principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, inventory, and tracking of museum objects. I have also served as a consult to all levels of management. I have experience in the ethical principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, inventory, and tracking of museum objects. I have also trained and developed others. I have experience in the ethical principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, inventory, and tracking of museum objects. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating and documenting all phases of loan process from inquiry through fulfillment including initial loans, extension or renewals, and returns? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience organizing and managing temporary and traveling museum loan exhibitions including all packing, shipping, insurance, and courier arrangements? Answer to this question is required As a museum exhibitions registrar I have organized and managed domestic AND international temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art including loans with courier requirements. As a museum exhibitions registrar I have organized and managed domestic OR international traveling loan exhibitions of art including loans with courier requirements. As a museum registrar I have helped organize and coordinate arrangements for domestic and international temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art including loans with courier requirements. As a museum registrar I have helped organize and coordinate arrangements for temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of computerized collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best reflects your ability to prepare registrarial papers for the shipping and loan of museum exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have experience in a public or private museum or equivalent performing or reviewing all written and physical transactions pertaining to loan objects and components in three of the following five areas: condition reports, shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate summary reports. I have experience in a public or private museum or equivalent performing or reviewing all written and physical transactions pertaining to loan objects and components in all of the following five areas: condition reports, shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate summary reports. I have experience in a public or private museum or equivalent performing or reviewing all written and physical transactions pertaining to loan objects and components highlighting one of the following five areas: condition reports, shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate summary reports. None of the above. 8 Which of the following exhibition-related responsibilities best describes your experience? (Check one) Answer to this question is required I have managed more than three exhibitions per year in a museum or gallery organization; maintained all exhibition-related loan records; upheld lender requirements; anticipated loan budgets; and prepared documents for traveling exhibitions including special installation conditions for borrowed works. I have managed at least three exhibitions per year in a museum or gallery organization; prepared and tracked all loan documentation; and communicated loan conditions to appropriate museum staff for the proper care of loans to the exhibition. I have been a liaison with exhibition lenders; and negotiated loan terms and schedules for incoming loans to a museum or gallery exhibition. I have created and/or updated loan documents in accordance with current registrar’s office policies and practices. I have utilized existing loan forms and loan request letter templates to create loan request documents for exhibitions in a museum or gallery setting. I do not have exhibition-related registration experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in drafting loan agreements/ contracts in a museum? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with museum loan agreements. I have assisted Museum Registrars in drafting loan agreements. I have developed contracts for loaning/borrowing of museum objects and established terms of a loan agreement between lenders and borrowers that outlined terms and conditions of the loan (including responsibilities). I have completed loan agreements for a museum under guidance of a Registrar or supervisor. I have overseen loan agreement documentation in a museum concerning objects for a variety of purposes such as exhibitions, research, photography, exhibit preparation, conservation, etc. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries, pick-ups and special requirements? Answer to this question is required I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries, pick-ups and special requirements. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, and packing firms. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders and borrowers. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with registration, collections management or conservation in a gallery setting? Answer to this question is required I have received hands-on training in a registrar’s, collections management, or conservation office in a museum or art gallery setting. I have worked in a registrar’s, collections management, or conservation office within a museum or art gallery setting. I have performed a variety of registrarial, collections management, or conservation duties within a museum or art gallery setting including preparing condition reports, packing objects or artwork, moving objects or artwork, monitoring environmental settings for objects on exhibit, and notifying my manager of potential problems or concerns. I have worked in a registration, collections management, or conservation office and my duties included coordinating incoming or outgoing loans, negotiating terms and conditions with lenders, managing the installation of objects and artwork in exhibitions, supervising the movement of objects, organizing packing and shipping, and monitoring environmental conditions in galleries. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following describes your experience managing the transportation, insurance, security, packing and shipping of museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed daily visual verification checks of museum items on exhibit for location verification and condition status. I have arranged for the insurance of museum objects and loans. I have identified and inspected long and short term secure fine arts spaces for staging exhibitions and storing collections. I have prepared packing and shipping cost estimates for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have prepared shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate summary reports for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have organized packing and shipping arrangements for objects and art to be shipped internationally. I have made special security arrangements to support the shipping of high value objects. I have couriered museum objects domestically. I have couriered museum objects internationally. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.