Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. All applicants will receive e-mail notification of the final status of the application. 1 How did you learn about this position? Answer to this question is required Mass Media - (magazines, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) Individual (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school or college counselor or official) Information technology (internet, world wide web, or SI web site) Association or organization (professional, community, religious) Other 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following administrative areas do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Budgeting Contracting Purchasing Human resources Travel of employees None of the above 4 Which of the following financial management activities have you performed in support of a cultural institution or organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have transferred funds between organizations and/or descriptive classes such as object classes and/or line items of the budget. I have entered financial data into a financial management system. I have set up new accounts in a financial management system. I have maintained/updated computerized fiscal records for expense accounts or budgeted line items. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more federal funds. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more non-appropriated funds. I have accessed an automated financial system to review financial activity on unit operating accounts. I have reconciled expenditure records or reports with authorized fund commitments. I have reconciled the accounts in the financial management database. I have monitored financial transactions to ensure the accuracy of data entry and identify issues and questions. I have provided guidance on financial management policy and processes. I have managed a cost-reimbursable project system with funding sources, endowment and Trust funds. I have generated standard and one-time reports from the financial management system. I have not performed any of the above functions. 5 Which of the following describe your experience with budget formulation, justification, presentation and execution of financial management (including grants administration) and financial reporting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing budget estimates for submission, analyzing program plans and data and identifying needs for changes. I have experience maintaining a continuing review of operating financial programs. I have experience providing guidance and instructions to department officials during budget formulation or execution processes. I have experience making analysis of program reports, financial statement and other accounting data. I have experience verifying information and insuring funds are properly allocated and spent in a timely fashion. None of the above. 6 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed as part of your routine work assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in funds management. I have entered financial transactions into an automated tracking system. I have determined and verified accounting codes to be used to identify transactions, sources, purposes and programs. I have recommended and implemented changes to improve fund management processes and procedures. I have alerted managers of funds in jeopardy of deficit and/or unresolved discrepancies. I have tracked income and expenses for a broad range of funds with a great degree of accuracy. I have updated and verified financial reports for distribution to program managers. I have reconciled accounting system records with cuff records and tracked down data to make necessary corrections or adjustments. I have ensured that expenditures do not exceed available account balances. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in performing federal government procurement using a financial system? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of procurement principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. On a monthly basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. On a daily basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of-works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) and have advised requestors for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience performing procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment, or other items. I have prepared purchase orders and tracked invoices and work orders for contractor services for cost-reimbursable projects. I have entered requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have helped vendors enroll in the organization’s procurement system. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 9 Which of the following tasks related to travel transactions have you done? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have validated and processed travel authorizations. I have performed interim and final audits of travel settlement claims. I have planned and executed training programs on travel pay procedures. I have prepared recurring reports concerning travel and transportation programs and expenses. I have reviewed GSA bills for accuracy and processed required expense/payment transactions. I have reviewed, analyzed, and monitored resolution of reported travel discrepancies. I have not performed any of these tasks. 10 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in Federal government property and inventory? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of property and inventory principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have located property inventory for my office. I have completed property inventory forms for my office. I have assisted the Accountable Property Officer in annual property inventory. I have served as a Property Custodian for my department. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.