Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following BEST describes how you begin to solve a novel or unusual problem? Answer to this question is required I consult regulatory standards and guidance. I routinely research issues and technical papers and incorporate lessons into my work. I identify and contact others likely to be facing similar problems. I have no need to research technical issues. 4 Please indicate which of the following areas you have quantitative / qualitative analysis skills: Answer to this question is required Quantitative analysis: statistics / modeling / surveys Developing hypotheses Evaluating information sources Identifying trends and patterns in behavior / activities / events Identifying independent and dependent variables None of the above 5 I have experience in writing the following types of technical and non-technical information. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Briefing or position paper Policy analysis Program evaluation Analysis of alternatives Correspondence Congressional correspondence Press release Speech Investigative report Thesis Standard operating procedures Mission statement Work published in academic journal None of the above 6 From the following list, identify the choice that BEST describes your communication skills. Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of individuals or groups. None of the above. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 8 Select the party or parties to whom you have provided advice on governing laws and regulations: Answer to this question is required Internal customer External customers Management Peers Subordinates None of the above 9 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 10 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? (MC) Answer to this question is required Produced a technical or policy report that relays findings in a larger context. Analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue. Produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results. Collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 11 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 12 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 13 Please indicate which of the following areas you have quantitative / qualitative analysis skills: Answer to this question is required Quantitative analysis: statistics / modeling / surveys Developing hypotheses Evaluating information sources Identifying trends and patterns in behavior / activities / events Identifying independent and dependent variables None of the above Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.