Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to retrieve materials. ** Retrieved materials from a collection of library items in response to requests. Answer to this question is required Carried out complex retrieval functions, and received, sorted, and returned materials to the appropriate location in a library special collection. Carried out routine retrieval functions, and received, sorted, and returned materials to the appropriate location in a library collection. Carried out basic retrieval procedures and support functions in a library. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to maintain materials in library collections. ** Performed duties in support of the maintenance of materials in library collections. Answer to this question is required Followed a body of standardized library rules, procedures, and operations to maintain library collections including arranging, sorting, shelving/re-shelving new and returned materials in appropriate shelflist order in the stacks. Processed general and specialized materials (e.g., newspapers, periodicals, comic books, or government documents) in various foreign languages, using approved handling instructions for preservation. Retrieved information from databases using reference tools to identify materials. Followed a body of standardized library rules, procedures, and operations to assist in collection maintenance, including arranging, sorting, and shelving re-shelving new and returned materials in appropriate shelflist order in the stacks. Processed general materials in various foreign languages, using approved handling instructions for preservation. Retrieved information from databases using standard tools in accordance with well-defined and established procedures to identify materials. Followed a body of well-established procedures to carry out routine and repetitive library collection maintenance duties. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide customer service in a library setting while exercising judgment and discretion. Provided quality customer service in a library setting in a positive and professional manner. Recognized researcher needs, effectively worked with a wide variety of individuals to disseminate information, answered inquiries from staff and the public. Followed library standards. Answer to this question is required In a library setting, independently provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and written documents). Determined the scope and nature of inquiries and complaints using diplomacy and discretion. Responded to complex and routine customer inquiries. Handled a high volume of researcher needs and requests with tact and courtesy. Delivered collection materials accurately and in a timely fashion. Followed through to ensure any questions or problems were resolved in established time frames. In a library setting, with minimal supervision, provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and written documents). Determined the scope and nature of inquiries and/or complaints using diplomacy and discretion. Responded to moderately complex and routine customer inquiries. Handled a high volume of researcher needs and with tact and courtesy. Delivered collection materials accurately and in a timely fashion. As needed, properly referred any questions or problems to the appropriate person for resolution in established time frames. In a library setting, under direct supervision provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and written documents). Responded to routine customer inquiries. Used pre-established rules and procedures for resolving customers' questions or problems and as needed, properly referred any questions or problems to the appropriate person for resolution in established time frames. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to search and perform data entry using computerized search tools and databases. Searched specialized library databases such as an online library catalog or database software. Performed data entry to input and update information. Used computerized search tools, databases and other computer automation applications including: 1) online library catalog; 2) databases or spreadsheet software for data entry; and 3) Microsoft Office. Answer to this question is required Searched library catalogs and/or databases and entered information in catalogs, databases, and spreadsheets. Used ALL of the applications listed above. Searched library catalogs and/or databases and entered information in catalogs, databases, and spreadsheets. Used TWO (2) of the applications listed above. Searched library catalogs and/or databases and entered information in catalogs, databases, and spreadsheets. Used ONE (1) of the applications listed above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).