Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness, and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in completing analytical studies? (Check all that apply - if more than 3 are selected no points will be awarded) Answer to this question is required I have applied fact-finding and investigative techniques in resolving issues. I have provided assistance in conducting interviews to obtain information on organizational missions, functions, and procedures. I have conducted comprehensive studies from start-to-finish including data collection, data analysis, coordination of team members and other interested parties, and production of interim and final evaluations. I have evaluated and analyzed succession management program policies and procedures to develop recommendations on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations. I have evaluated and analyzed leadership development program policies and procedures to develop recommendations on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations. I have used qualitative and quantitative methods, and other statistical approaches and techniques to assess program effectiveness. I have performed extensive research, identified critical areas of operational deficiency, and provided alternatives for developing investigative studies. I have had formal coursework or training in statistical methods and techniques. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in collecting and analyzing statistical data using software such as Excel, Access, and other computer database systems? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in using these types of computer-based tools to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have experience using these computer-based tools but am not able to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have limited experience using these computer-based tools. I have never used any data collection and analyzing computer-based tools. 5 Which of the following automated tasks have you performed within the past year? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used word processing software to create correspondence, create labels, etc. I have used word processing software to set up footnotes, outline formats and/or table of contents. I have used database to create tables, queries and/or reports. I have used an email package to maintain scheduled meetings (e.g., MS Outlook, Novell Groupwise, or any other internet based package). I have used PeopleSoft or other software package to track personnel actions and/or financial transactions. I have edited text and merged documents in a personal computer. I have used a photocopy machine for large collation jobs. I have used a scanner to scan large document productions (e.g.,Text Bridge, Paper Port). I have used an automated travel program to generate travel documents and vouchers (examples of travel programs: Travel Manager/Jelco, eTravel Solutions, or on line-booking engines). I have used an automated program to prepare time and attendance records. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience managing contracts serving as a COTR (Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts. I have completed formal education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Ability to apply and/or adapt to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in applying and/or adapting to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in applying and/or adapting to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures. I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following describes your experience managing the execution of contracts and supporting documentation to ensure compliance with relevant policies, procedures and regulations? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience in developing policies and procedures for a large security or law enforcement organization? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in developing policies and procedures for a large security or law enforcement organization. I have not had experience in developing policies and procedures for a large security or law enforcement organization. I have developed policies and procedures for a large security or law enforcement organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have developed policies and procedures for an organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have developed policies and procedures for an organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following describes your experience in serving as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR)? Answer to this question is required I have served as a COTR on contracts over $100,000. I am certified as a COTR for contracts over $100,000. I have served as a COTR on contracts under $100,000. I am certified as a COTR contracts under $100,000, but have not served as COTR on a contract. None of the above. 11 Which of the following reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have had work experience applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements best reflects your experience communicating in writing on complex and controversial issues to a broad audience? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following describes your knowledge and/or experience in working on security activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written procedural guidance, and prepared correspondence and report findings on security programs. I have formulated guidelines for procedural instructions for implementation of new security initiatives or systems. I have drafted security policy and procedural materials for dissemination. I have supported information security activities using knowledge of applicable directives and manuals. I have interpreted and applied directives, policies, and procedures dealing with security. I have evaluated physical and technical security to determine levels of efficiency, formality of operations, and compliance with applicable policies and program requirements. I have provided advice to staff and program managers on a wide variety of security activities. I have conducted research, developed briefing materials, and delivered briefings/presentations to senior management. I have coordinated and operated as a liaison with various organizations on security programs. I have interpreted and applied Federal laws, national policies, or regulations pertaining to a comprehensive security survey program. I have not performed any of the above choices. Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness, and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in completing analytical studies? (Check all that apply - if more than 3 are selected no points will be awarded) Answer to this question is required I have applied fact-finding and investigative techniques in resolving issues. I have provided assistance in conducting interviews to obtain information on organizational missions, functions, and procedures. I have conducted comprehensive studies from start-to-finish including data collection, data analysis, coordination of team members and other interested parties, and production of interim and final evaluations. I have evaluated and analyzed succession management program policies and procedures to develop recommendations on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations. I have evaluated and analyzed leadership development program policies and procedures to develop recommendations on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations. I have used qualitative and quantitative methods, and other statistical approaches and techniques to assess program effectiveness. I have performed extensive research, identified critical areas of operational deficiency, and provided alternatives for developing investigative studies. I have had formal coursework or training in statistical methods and techniques. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in collecting and analyzing statistical data using software such as Excel, Access, and other computer database systems? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in using these types of computer-based tools to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have experience using these computer-based tools but am not able to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have limited experience using these computer-based tools. I have never used any data collection and analyzing computer-based tools. 5 Do you have specialized experience (Federal or other) performing the following duties: gathers and analyzes information for administrative processes; prepares briefings, reports, letters, and other documents to make recommendations for managing programs, policies and activities; develops, analyzes, evaluates, and advises on the effectiveness for work methods and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to use analytical methods, techniques, and processes to support conclusions for recommendation to management? Answer to this question is required Independently applies advanced analytical methods (e.g., dashboards, multi source analysis) to develop well supported recommendations for management decision making. Uses standard analytical techniques and spreadsheets to analyze data and support routine conclusions with some guidance. Has training or limited exposure to analytical methods with minimal hands on experience. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experiences developing guidance on security polices, practices, and procedures for law enforcement? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Ability to apply and/or adapt to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in applying and/or adapting to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in applying and/or adapting to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures. I have applied and/or adapted to established supply policies, proper contract administration practices, management techniques, regulations, and procedures as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following describes your experience managing the execution of contracts and supporting documentation to ensure compliance with relevant policies, procedures and regulations? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience leading the interpretation and implementation of law enforcement and security policies, directives, and compliance programs at an organizational level? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in interpreting or applying law enforcement or security policies or compliance requirements. I have received education and training in law enforcement and security policies and compliance requirements but have not applied them in a leadership capacity. I have applied law enforcement and security policies and compliance requirements under the guidance of senior leadership. I have independently led the implementation of law enforcement and security policies and compliance programs within a major program, division, or regional operation. I have led the interpretation and enterprise-wide implementation of complex law enforcement and security policies and compliance programs across multiple regions or mission areas, and I serve as a principal advisor to executive leadership on policy, governance, and compliance strategy. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience managing contracts serving as a COTR (Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts. I have completed formal education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following describes your experience in serving as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR)? Answer to this question is required I have served as a COTR on contracts over $100,000. I am certified as a COTR for contracts over $100,000. I have served as a COTR on contracts under $100,000. I am certified as a COTR contracts under $100,000, but have not served as COTR on a contract. None of the above. 13 Which of the following reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have had work experience applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 15 Which of the following statements best reflects your experience communicating in writing on complex and controversial issues to a broad audience? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following describes your knowledge and/or experience in working on security activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written procedural guidance, and prepared correspondence and report findings on security programs. I have formulated guidelines for procedural instructions for implementation of new security initiatives or systems. I have drafted security policy and procedural materials for dissemination. I have supported information security activities using knowledge of applicable directives and manuals. I have interpreted and applied directives, policies, and procedures dealing with security. I have evaluated physical and technical security to determine levels of efficiency, formality of operations, and compliance with applicable policies and program requirements. I have provided advice to staff and program managers on a wide variety of security activities. I have conducted research, developed briefing materials, and delivered briefings/presentations to senior management. I have coordinated and operated as a liaison with various organizations on security programs. I have interpreted and applied Federal laws, national policies, or regulations pertaining to a comprehensive security survey program. I have not performed any of the above choices. 17 What best describes your ability to communicate complex technical and programmatic information? Answer to this question is required Delivered briefings to executive audiences; authored technical papers Regularly report to leadership on project or technical progress Occasional presenter or contributor to group discussions Limited communication experience Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.