Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 2 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 8 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 10 Which of the following types of teams have you planned, organized, and managed? Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary / cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 11 From the following list, please indicate the cyber related topics in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Permissible and unacceptable conduct in cyberspace Application of deterrence strategies to conduct in cyberspace Application of principles governing armed conflict to conduct in cyberspace Offensive and defensive technical capabilities Culture and politics of specific countries developing cyber capabilities None of the above 12 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to make sound decisions related to gathering of intelligence information; developing alternatives solutions; evaluating alternatives; and selecting a course of action? Answer to this question is required I have limited education or work experience applying standard procedures to identify and solve routine problems. I frequently refer complex issues to a superior. I have some work experience in applying conventional and unconventional procedures to solve problems and/or determine a course of action. I have assisted others in the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations, consulting with others and superiors when appropriate. I have a moderate amount of work experience in employing conventional and unconventional procedures in solving problems or selecting a course of action. I have on occasion independently analyzed problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and management preferences before providing solutions. I have extensive work experience in employing a variety of approaches to solving problems or selecting a course of action. I have routinely and independently analyzed problems or situations, and considered the impact, rules, regulations and management preferences before providing solutions. I have been recognized for exhibiting confidence that my proposed solution or course of action is the best possible choice. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience with the Federal budget formulation process? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have been responsible for assisting in gathering program budgetary requirements for the preparation of budget requests, prepared budget and resource reports to support the budget, verified that the program objectives were financially met, maintained and updated data when required and resolved any discrepancies in the budget information. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have been responsible for gathering program budgetary requirements for the preparation of budget requests, prepared budget and resource reports to support the budget, verified that the program objectives were financially met, maintained and updated data when required and resolved any discrepancies in the budget information as well as provided written supporting justifications and worked with program managers in establishing funding requirements. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in in this area. 14 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education training or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency intelligence policy coordination. I have work experience representing my bureau in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing intelligence policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency intelligence policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 15 I have performed the following personnel management functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implementing work completed Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Performing annual performance evaluations None of the above 16 With which of the following program management techniques do you have education or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones None of the above 17 Do you have prior experience in working for or coordinating projects / programs with any of the following organizations? Answer to this question is required Project and Contracting Office (PCO) Defense Contract Management Office (DCMA) United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Department of Defense (DOD) Department of State (DOS) General Services Administration (GSA) Smart Buy None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.