Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of audit, financial management systems and reporting applications.** Worked with financial management systems, programs, and software regularly used in the financial field for the following: 1) General Ledger and External Financial Reporting, 2) Acquisitions, 3) Budget/Funds Management, 4) Accounts Payable, 5) Accounts Receivable, 6) Asset Management, and 7) Disbursing. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience utilizing AT LEAST FOUR of the above while participating as a key member of the team, providing professional expertise in the development, enhancement, revision, implementation, and operational support of audit, automated financial management systems and reporting applications. Demonstrated experience utilizing AT LEAST FOUR of the above while assisting in providing professional expertise in the development, enhancement, revision, implementation, and operational support of audit, automated financial management systems and reporting applications. Demonstrated experience utilizing THREE of the above while providing or assisting in providing professional expertise in the development, enhancement, revision, implementation, and operational support of audit, automated financial management systems and reporting applications. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to review and analyze financial data using analytical methods and techniques to identify and resolve issues.** Reviewed and analyzed financial data to identify issues, discrepancies, patterns and root causes that led to the resolution of complex issues. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, reviewed and performed analyses to identify issues, discrepancies, patterns and the root causes that led to the resolution of problems. Identified the systemic problems and led the development of solutions that reduced and/or prevented the recurrence by using analytical methods, techniques and computer applications including SQL and other applications such as Business Objects, Crystal Reports, and/or Toad to analyze financial data. Assisted in reviewing and performing analyses to identify issues, discrepancies, patterns and the root causes that led to the resolution of problems. Identified the systemic problems and helped develop solutions that reduced and/or prevented the recurrence by using analytical methods, techniques and computer applications including SQL and other applications such as Business Objects, Crystal Reports, and/or Toad to analyze financial data. As part of a team, assisted in reviewing and performing basic analyses to identify issues, discrepancies, patterns and the root causes that led to the resolution of problems. Identified the systemic problems and helped develop solutions that reduced or prevented their recurrence by using analytical methods, techniques and computer applications including SQL and other applications such as Business Objects, Crystal Reports, and/or Toad to analyze financial data. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide financial systems support.** &nbsp;Ability to provide systems support in the development and operation of automated financial management and reporting applications. This included work with financial computer systems and software applications typically used in the financial field (e.g. off-the shelf (COTS) accounting systems such as Momentum, Oracle, SAP, PeopleSoft, etc.). Answer to this question is required Provided advice and systems support in the development and operation of financial management and reporting applications. This included work with financial computer systems and software applications typically used in the financial field (e.g. off-the shelf (COTS) accounting systems such as Momentum, Oracle, SAP, PeopleSoft, etc.). Provided application assistance during phases of the development, establishment and maintenance of integrated financial systems. Demonstrated experience using advanced financial computer software applications to analyze raw data from accounting tables or databases. Developed reports to facilitate and enhance analysis of raw data to identify variances, trends, and cost relationships. Has experience using accounting systems and software applications (e.g. SQL Developer) to extract data and perform financial analysis and reporting. Analyzed computer-generated financial reports to identify variances and compiled financial data for operations. Provided advice and systems support in the development and operation of automated financial management and reporting applications. This included work with financial computer systems and software applications typically used in the financial field (e.g. off-the shelf (COTS) accounting systems such as Momentum, Oracle, SAP, PeopleSoft, etc.). Provided application assistance during phases of the development, establishment and maintenance of integrated financial systems. Demonstrated experience using accounting systems and software applications to extract data and perform financial analysis and reporting. Analyzed computer-generated financial reports to identify variances and compiled financial data for operations. As part of a team, assisted in providing advice and systems support in the development and operation of automated financial management and reporting applications. This included work with financial computer systems and software applications typically used in the financial field (e.g. off-the shelf (COTS) accounting systems such as Momentum, Oracle, SAP, PeopleSoft, etc.). Demonstrated experience using accounting systems and software applications to extract data and perform financial analysis and reporting. Compiled financial data for day-to-day operations using computer systems and software applications. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others. The person in this position must have the ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others to accomplish program objectives. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals, including: managers, supervisors, staff, and others inside and outside an organization. Collaborated and served as a liaison for a financial services organization, ensuring responsiveness to organization and user needs. Communicated and addressed issues related to financial systems, processes, and/or procedures. Participated in meetings, briefings, and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a variety of individuals, including: supervisors, staff and others primarily inside an organization to ensure responsiveness to organization and user needs. Has some experience collaborating and liaising with individuals to ensure responsiveness to organization and user needs. Communicated and addressed issues related to financial systems, processes, and/or procedures. Participated in meetings, briefings, and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Developed and maintained effective working relationships and collaborating with a variety of individuals inside an organization to ensure responsiveness to organization and user needs. Communicated and addressed issues related to financial systems, processes, and/or procedures. Participated in meetings, briefings, and other activities to further the goals of the organization. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Drafted a clear, accurate, descriptive, and understandable financial documents, such as 1) reports (financial and status); 2) financial systems policies and operating procedures, 3) project planning documents, 4) financial studies, 5) formal and informal correspondence, or 6) responses to inquiries, following standard rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required With minimal supervision wrote at least FIVE of the above financial and/or accounting related documents to be distributed to management or other persons internal and external to an agency or organization. With supervision wrote at least FIVE of the above financial and/or accounting-related documents. Worked with colleagues and supervisors to ensure the accuracy of accounts payable and/or accounts receivable data. With supervision wrote FOUR of the above financial and/or accounting-related documents. Worked with colleagues and supervisors to ensure the accuracy of accounts payable and/or accounts receivable data. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of and ability to apply Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP and other accounting industry regulations. Applied the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of finance/accounting in order to perform financial accounting and reporting functions. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Assisted in analyzing and interpreting financial statements and reports, accounting ledgers, and data trends. Reviewed new and existing accounting requirements and identified impacts to an organization. Verified account balances, financial transactions, supporting schedules, and accounting systems in preparation for audits. Applied knowledge of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Assisted in analyzing and interpreting financial statements and reports, accounting ledgers, and data trends. With supervision, reviewed new and existing accounting requirements and identified impacts to an organization. Verified account balances, financial transactions, supporting schedules, and accounting systems in preparation for audits. Applied basic knowledge of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Working as part of a team, assisted in analyzing and interpreting financial statements and reports, accounting ledgers, and data trends. With supervision, reviewed new and existing accounting requirements and identified impacts to an organization. Verified account balances, financial transactions, supporting schedules, and accounting systems in preparation for audits. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).