Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to apply administrative processes and techniques.** Applies administrative management processes and techniques in a professional office setting by performing the following activities: 1) acts as a liaison for the office; 2) schedules meetings and related logistics; 3) identifies operational needs and recommends procedures to improve management effectiveness; 4) applies administrative policies, researches, accesses and interprets information regarding personnel and operations; 5) establishes and revises administrative systems and processes for tracking tasks or work activities, meeting administrative requirements; 6) coordinates travel logistics; and 7) maintains office files and acts as records management liaison. Answer to this question is required In an administrative capacity, performed ALL of the activities listed above. Routinely provided advice and guidance to managers, supervisors, and staff on issues regarding policies, procedures, and regulations related to administrative functions. Served as the primary liaison to other offices with the agency/organization. In an administrative capacity, performed at least FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the activities listed above. Routinely provided advice and guidance to managers, supervisors, and/or staff on issues regarding policies, procedures, and regulations related to administrative functions. In an administrative capacity, performed at least THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. Occasionally, provided guidance to managers, supervisors, and/or staff on issues regarding policies, procedures, and regulations related to administrative functions. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to plan and execute work.** Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision planned, organized and executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities, including identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. With supervision, completed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Work assignments were primarily planned by supervisors. Met deadlines and accomplished work under general supervision. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to utilize computer technology. Supported the administrative work of an organization by utilizing a variety of software applications including: 1) word-processing (e.g., Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint), 4) communications and collaboration software (Outlook, Teams, Confluence, 5) automated file and/or tracking systems (e.g., Momentum, eManagement), 6) automated personnel/payroll data systems (e.g., GOVTA, EmpowHR and NFC), and 7) various office equipment (e.g., digital photocopy machine, scanner and fax machine). Applied new and emerging technologies to improve work, productivity, or customer service Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide liaison services. Worked well and cooperated with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, contractors and other service and support units) to provide positive and professional consultation and liaison services, anticipating their current and future needs and exchanging accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required As a PRIMARY job responsibility, ROUTINELY served as the administrative specialist for a senior manager and an organization, collaborating regularly with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Regularly and effectively communicated with individuals to resolve problems and issues of a sensitive, confidential and controversial nature. As a PRIMARY job responsibility, served as an administrative specialist for an organization, collaborating with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and issues of a sensitive and/or confidential nature. As a PRIMARY job responsibility, served as an administrative assistant for an organization. This included collaborating primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).