Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 GS-5 I meet the following educational requirement: Bachelor's degree in computer science&nbsp; or bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 07 1 GS-7 &nbsp; In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates may qualify by virtue of education, specialized experience or a combination of both education and experience. Please select the appropriate response. Answer to this question is required 1 year of graduate-level education Superior Academic Achievement; Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. Superior Academic Achievement; Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or Superior Academic Achievement; 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2years of the curriculum. Superior Academic Achievement; Membership in a national scholastic honor society - Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: performing junior level computer science tasks such as performing developmental software work, coding, debugging, analysis, testing, and evaluation of computer software systems and/or related components. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. Grade: 09 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 GS-9 In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates may qualify by virtue of education, specialized experience or a combination of both education and experience. Please select the appropriate response. Answer to this question is required Education: Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as Computer Science. Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: writing, testing, modifying software programs using languages such as Java, Python, C#, or similar; Preparing technical documentation; Debugging code and resolving routine technical issues; Supporting software development life-cycle (SDLC) activities. A combination of education and experience. Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 GS-11 In order to be deemed as qualified candidates may qualify by virtue of education, specialized experience or a combination of both education and experience. Please select the appropriate response. Answer to this question is required Education: Have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: Developing or modifying software using languages (e.g., Python, Java, C#, C++); Applying computer science principles to solve technical problems; Testing, debugging, or validating software or systems components; Supporting database development, data processing, or automation scripts. Combination of both education and experience. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. 7 I meet the following educational requirement: Bachelor's degree in computer science&nbsp; or bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).