Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your education and legal experience? Answer to this question is required I have a Juris Doctor degree from an accredited college or university and at least three (3) years of legal experience. I have a Juris Doctor degree from an accredited college or university and have more than three(3) years of experience. None of the above. 2 Which statement best describes your bar membership status? Answer to this question is required I am a member of the DC bar. I am a pending member of the DC bar. I am a member of the bar of state, territory of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting legal research to provide sound legal advice, counsel, and, interpretation of legal matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which statements describe your experience applying current or proposed local, state or federal legislation or rules? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have answered or resolved legal issues. I have provided guidance on organization policies. I have determined the impact on business practices, processes, or procedures. None of the above. 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing sources of law and argument to write clear, precise, and persuasive legal memoranda? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience independently managing caseloads and completing activities within established schedules? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which statement best describes your knowledge and application of the District of Columbia (D.C.) Code? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the D.C. Code. I have some knowledge of the D.C. Code. I have knowledge of the D.C. Code, and have applied it in a law school setting. I have knowledge of the D.C. Code, and have applied it in a legal setting. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Select the areas in which you have knowledge of the District of Columbia Superior Court Rules of Civil Procedure. Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required D.C. Superior Court Rules of Procedure for the Small Claims and Conciliation Branch D.C. Superior Court Rules of Procedure for the Landlord & Tenant Branch D.C. Superior Court Rules of Civil Procedure None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).