Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-13 level in the federal service that includes: evaluating and advising on complex legal matters involving privacy, records management, and information disclosure. I do not meet the specialized experience as described above. 2 In addition to basic requirement and at least one year qualifying specialized experience as described in the announcement, applicants must have a minimum of four (4) years of experience as a practicing attorney (post bar admission). Do you possess this experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Select the systems/applications you currently use regularly or have used regularly in the past. Answer to this question is required Lexis/Nexis Westlaw PACER Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft PowerPoint Other research software Other computerized databases or systems None of the above 11 Select the response that best reflects your use of automated databases. Answer to this question is required I have had no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/compentency. 12 Select the responses that reflect your experience with the Privacy Act and HIPAA. Answer to this question is required Supervising Privacy Act and HIPAA compliance. Providing legal guidance for determining when a Privacy Impact Assessment is required. Providing advice related to privacy and HIPAA procedures and policies. Attending Privacy Act and/or HIPAA training. Conducting Privacy Act and/or HIPAA training. Addressing issues related to breaches of personally identifiable information or private health information. None of the above. 13 Choose the responses that reflect your experience with the Federal Records Act. Answer to this question is required Supervising Federal Records Act compliance. Providing guidance and management for the proper storage, security and disposition of records as outlined by applicable records schedules. Developing Agency-wide policy for the management of records in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration guidance and regulations. Developing organizational policy for the management of records in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration guidance and regulations. Implementing organizational procedures for the management of records in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration guidance and regulations. Attending Records Management training. Conducting Records Management training. None of the above 14 Evaluate your experience advising on E-Government Act issues, including Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA) and System or Records Notices (SORN). Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 15 Evaluate your ability to give oral presentations to convey legal and factual information and technical details. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment using various communication tools such as slide presentations, briefing charts, and/or graphics to a variety of groups on a variety of topics. I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment to small groups that are familiar with the topic. I have given oral presentations as part of my coursework in an educational setting. I have not given oral presentations in an educational or professional work environment 16 I possess the ability and experience to clearly and persuasively communicate in writing. I can, in particular, clearly identify and communicate in writing the relevant legal and factual matters in issue and present the strengths and weaknesses of each side of these issues. Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 17 Identify the types of legal documents which you have been responsible for preparing and reviewing. Answer to this question is required System of Record Notices (SORN) Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA) Responses to FOIA requests Routine Legal Correspondence Memoranda Motions Orders None of the above 18 Select the answer that best describes your ability to understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law and administrative procedures and apply them to specific situations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, and/or experience with case law and administrative procedures. I have had training and education that allows me to understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law and administrative procedures, but have not yet performed this task as part of a job. I understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law and administrative procedures and apply them to specific situations, under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law and administrative procedures and apply them to specific situations, as a regular part of my job. I have supervised and/or trained others to understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law and administrative procedures and apply them to specific situations. 19 Select the answer that best describes your training and/or experience in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, and/or experience in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law. I have had training and education in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law, but I do not perform this task as a part of a job. I have experience in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law, under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law, as a regular part of my job. I have supervised and/or trained others in the development, analysis, and implementation of state or federal regulations and other activities associated with administrative law. 20 Do you have experience preparing, formatting, and editing legal documents such as draft briefs, pleadings, affidavits, memoranda and other correspondence and highly technical material? Answer to this question is required Yes 20.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 21 Select the answer that best describes your knowledge of administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, and/or experience with administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. I have had training and education with administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act but have not yet performed this task as part of a job. I have experience with administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience with administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act as a regular part of my job. I have supervised and/or trained others on administrative procedure and judicial precedent regarding information disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. 22 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty 24 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).