Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Specialized experience is experience with entry-level human resources assignments that include analyzing problems to identify significant factors, researching and gathering pertinent data, and recognizing solutions; planning and organizing work; and communicating factual and procedural information clearly, verbally and in writing. 1 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I have completed one academic year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or the equivalent). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND graduated in the upper third of the college, university or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration based on completed coursework. I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded in the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I have a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society (listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities). I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service as described above. I have a combination of qualifying graduate education and specialized experience as described above that when combined meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements described above. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. 1 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-7 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-5 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 2 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-12 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-12 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-12 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).