Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Basic Entry Requirement: Choose the one answer that best describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate or higher level degree from an accredited college or university in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that INCLUDED 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. I have education equivalent to one of the majors shown in Choice 1 above that INCLUDED at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, PLUS appropriate experience OR additional education. My education and experience does not match the basic qualification requirements described above. Note: All applicants WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. 2 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required IN ADDITION to meeting the basic entry qualification requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. I do not meet the experience requirement described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades 1 Select the answer choice that BEST describes your level of experience in analyzing information technology data or information: Answer to this question is required I have education or training in analyzing data or information in an information technology environment. I have limited experience in analyzing data or information in an information technology environment. I have assisted others in analyzing information relating to specific information technology requirements, problems or issues in order to develop approaches that may be undertaken, define the level of risk involved, estimate the costs for implementing each option, and/or recommend a course of action. I have independently analyzed information relating to specific information technology requirements, problems or issues in order to develop approaches that may be undertaken, define the level of risk involved, estimate the costs for implementing each option, and/or recommend a course of action. I have independently analyzed information relating to broad information technology requirements, problems or issues in order to test and evaluate alternatives, modify established policies, practices, procedures, or techniques for situations which differ in kind and level of information technology complexity. I have independently analyzed information relating to broad and conflicting information technology requirements, or that involve situations with poorly defined problems or unanticipated conditions. In addition, I have tested, evaluated and/or introduced advanced equipment or techniques leading to the development of new performance criteria, guides and/or policies. None of the above. 2 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience in transboundary water quality and water management issues, or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education related to transboundary water quality and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of transboundary water quality and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basins. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct programs related to transboundary water quality and water management issues, or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. I have applied this experience to a variety of projects and programs, including presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct complex programs and develop corresponding recommendations related to transboundary water quality issues, and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 3 Select the choices that describe work activities you have performed in project management: Answer to this question is required Managed a project (or significant portion) from its inception through completion. Conducted requirements analysis (e.g., defined project objectives, scope and deliverables; set goals, standards and methods to monitor progress). Developed action plans and milestones. Administered project (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and/or stakeholders. Implemented project plans including quality assurance processes, project documentation, and post project reviews and/or evaluations. Responded to evaluation and feedback concerning recommended changes and/or improvements. None of the above. 4 What statement below BEST describes your ability to work with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems or satisfy their expectations? Answer to this question is required I have worked with clients within a single office on routine problems and sought information to resolve a specific issue. Business is generally conducted in-person or by telephone, providing guidance to the customer. I have worked with clients from multiple offices on routine problems and provided information to resolve a specific issue. Business is generally conducted by telephone, providing guidance to the customer. I have worked effectively with different levels of personnel or one-on-one with someone on routine issues. I have also been involved in providing or exchanging information and ideas with my peer group. I have worked closely with various levels of personnel to identify and resolve problems. I have exchanged information and ideas, resulting in a specific course of action. I have used initiative, persuasion and knowledge of subject area to gain support for proposed action. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 7 Select the answer that BEST describes your experience with writing and reviewing reports, memoranda, and/or operational plans for clarity and accuracy: Answer to this question is required I have experience in leading a research group that has written project reports and memoranda, or overseen, planned, executed or implemented operational plans. I have experience in writing project reports or memoranda, or serving in a key role overseeing, planning, executing, or implementing operational plans. I have experience in reviewing, analyzing and modifying reports. I have experience in writing assigned research reports. I have experience in reviewing, analyzing and modifying reports, with assistance from a supervisor or senior management official. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques and I have experience in negotiating. I have no formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have experience in negotiating. I have no experience, formal training, or education in negotiation. 9 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience in transboundary water issues? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education related to transboundary water issues. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of transboundary water issues. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct programs related to transboundary water issues. I have applied this experience to a variety of projects and programs, including presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct complex programs and develop corresponding recommendations related to transboundary water issues. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conferences? Answer to this question is required Make arrangements for meeting facilities, set dates, notify participants and arrange to provide the necessary supplies and equipment. Arrange travel and secure authorization for expense reimbursements for guest attendees, speakers, or consultants. Draft the meeting or conference agenda, draft presentation outlines, assemble supporting materials and prepare formal presentation slides and handouts. Arrange social functions held for conference participants. Attend the meeting or conference, record minutes and action items, publish final minutes, and follow up to assure that commitments made are carried out within agreed upon time frames. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements BEST describes your background working on inter- and intra-organizational coordination? Answer to this question is required I have never needed to coordinate among offices, agencies, or organizations as part of my job. I have coordinated among offices in my same organization, for example on issues related to projects, policies, or budgets. I have coordinated among agencies or organizations, for example on issues related to projects, or budgets. I have coordinated among agencies or organizations, on issues related to official policy. I have led the coordination among different organizations or agencies, on issues related to official policies or programs. 12 Choose the statements that describe your experience drafting written material. Answer to this question is required I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed and edited reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, adherence to requirements, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific, or industrial journals / newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 13 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience in identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions? Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in analyzing complex problems. I have participated with others in projects involving the application of organizational, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied organizational, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems. I have performed as team leader in applying new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems. 14 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to exercise initiative. Answer to this question is required I have recommended actions to achieve a benefit or advantage. I have designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have participated in a group designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have developed innovative solutions and non-traditional approaches to identify opportunities for improvement in job performance which contribute to overall organizational effectiveness. None of the above. 15 Please select the response that best describes your experience with developing reports. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed, classified, categorized, and prioritized data and determined appropriate actions I have conducted extensive research and prepared technical briefings I have conducted extensive data analysis, prepared comprehensive reports, and from this established recommendations for consideration. None of the above 16 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to facilitate communication through consensus building and teamwork. Answer to this question is required I have served as a team leader working collaboratively to resolve problems quickly and constructively, examining the options and providing sensitivity to bring all stakeholders on board to a common position. I have assisted team members and customers reach agreement and applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to human resources problems and/or conflicts. I have led teams through differences and promoted discussion of divergent views to reach operational agreement or consensus on issues. I have worked in groups and teams; conducting briefings and other meetings; gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; anticipates issues and facilitates win-win situations. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.