Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I acknowledge and understand that this position observes law enforcement officer retirement provisions (First-time appointees to positions covered under law enforcement officer retirement provisions must not have reached their 37th birthday at the time of appointment. Applicants 37 years or over who have previous law enforcement officer experience under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System and who have either a subsequent break in service or intervening service in a non-law enforcement officer position may have their previous law enforcement officer experience subtracted from their age to determine whether they meet the maximum age requirement.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have a current and valid driver's license. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Select the choice that best describes your employment in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court, or Court System). Answer to this question is required I am a court employee and have worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a full-time temporary employee (FTT) or While Actually Employed (WAE) in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a court employee and have not worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System). However, I am eligible because this position is in my current division. None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your level of education and years of case management experience? Answer to this question is required I have a Master’s Degree and four (4) years of case management experience. I have a Doctorate’s Degree and two (2) years of case management experience. I have a Bachelor's Degree and at least five (5) years of case management experience. None of the above. 5 Supervisory Probation Officers must effectively allocate time for multiple tasks and projects and execute assignments within specific time frames meeting a certain standard. Select the response(s) that best describes your time management and organizational skills? Answer to this question is required I have led a team with caseloads or workloads involving multiple tasks and projects and have used various tracking methods to complete assignments independently. I have managed a caseload/workload involving multiple tasks and projects and I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments independently, on a daily basis. I have managed a workload involving multiple tasks and projects as directed by superiors, but this was not an integral part of my daily duties. I have requested assistance through a supervisor or co-worker on routine tasks and projects in order to work on higher priority tasks and projects. I have limited experience in prioritizing and coordinating my work to meet office requirements and deadlines. None of the above. 6 Select response(s) that best describes your experience communicating in writing. I have researched, drafted or produced the following documents. Choose as many as apply. Answer to this question is required Statistical and data trend analysis Reports - Social study/Pre-sentence/Memoranda Project planning documents Training outlines, presentations or materials Personnel actions and/or recommendations for personnel actions by my supervisors Comprehensive developmental history and service plan for children, youth and families None of the above. 7 Select the response(s) that best reflects how closely you have worked with senior management officials in your organization. Answer to this question is required As a part of my duties, I have been required to periodically meet with senior management, hearing examiners, administrative law judges or judicial officers on policies, procedures and practices and make recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my research, analysis and/or experience. I have also produced extensive reports based upon information gathered from my research, analysis and/or experience. As a part of my job I have been required to review and analyze policies, procedures and practices. The recommendations regarding enhancement of efficiency in operations that I have made, were presented to the executive level officials, senior management or judicial officers, by my supervisor. I have also produced reports based upon information gathered from my research, analysis and/or experience. I was part of a team that researched and analyzed policies, procedures and practices. The recommendations regarding enhancement of efficiency in operations that we made, were presented to the executive level officials, senior management or judicial officers, by our supervisor. I have also assisted in the production of reports based upon information gathered from my research, analysis and/or experience. None of the above. 8 Select the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work. Answer to this question is required Presented information to high-level officials, senior managers, executives, hearing examiners, administrative law judges, judicial officers, external stakeholders, clients or customers in a formal setting. Represented a group or organization at meetings or conferences attended by high-level individuals including agency leaders, managers, advocates, consumers and other stakeholders. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, and both internal and external stakeholders relative to my organization. Made training presentations to organizational staff or external stakeholders concerning organization programs and practices. None of the above. 9 Which tasks have you performed in support of training and workshops? Answer to this question is required I have written/developed/designed/facilitated training curricula. I have written/developed/designed portions or all of the trainings/workshops. I have presented trainings/workshops that were developed by someone else. I have been a part of a team that facilitated portions or all of the trainings/workshops. I have researched, located and coordinated with speakers to make presentations. None of the above. 10 I have experience working with a diverse group of people. This group included people from a range of ages, a variety of ethnicities, educational and socio-economic levels. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which response describes your highest level of experience in work activities to accomplish goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I interface with other teams within my agency, division, branch, unit or all of the above sharing best practices and innovations so as to enhance the performance of the overall agency, division, branch, or unit. I interface with other teams within my agency sharing best practices, innovations and recommendations. This work also requires collaboration with others who are either independent individuals or from other agencies, organizations or groups. I work independently and without input or assistance of a team. None of the above. 12 Please select the types of conflict resolution experience and/or training you have. Answer to this question is required I have had training in dispute resolution, but I have not had the opportunity to apply the training in a work place setting. I have experience in helping my team to deal with interpersonal conflicts. I have experience in identifying potential conflict with employees and have made recommendations on how to resolve the issues to management. As a supervisor, I have experience in identifying potential or actual conflicts with employees, youth and/or families and have taken the proper actions to resolve these conflicts. None of the above 13 Please select the choices that best describe your supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required Developing policies and procedures. Completing performance evaluations. Giving accurate and efficient directives. Preparing corrective actions. Budget planning and management of programs and projects. Writing/making proposals for policy change and program development. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).