Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 How did you first hear about this job opportunity at the NRC? Answer to this question is required NRC Website USAJOBS.gov Online job search website (excluding USAJOBS.gov) Online Banner Ad Social Media (ex. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter) Magazine or newspaper advertisement Career Fair Exhibit Veteran's Organization Professional meeting Current NRC employee Professor or Colleague Friend or relative Other 3 Knowledge of and experience applying the theories, principles, and practices in the fields of management and program administration. Knowledge and experience and training in administrative and program management, planning, and cost control necessary to assist in the management of support programs. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (EXAMPLE: Describe your experience, education and training that demonstrate your knowledge of the theories, principles, and practices in the fields of management and program administration and training in administrative and program management, planning, and cost control necessary to assist in the management of support programs.) 4 Analytical ability sufficient to plan, organize and perform a variety of program and administrative management functions and activities involving competing priorities and deadlines. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (Describe the types, scope and complexity of activities and programs you have supported. Provide specific examples of the types of analyses, evaluations, and studies you have performed, including the purpose, complexity and results of your analyses. Describe your role in planning, organizing and performing multidisciplinary activities or programs, including developing milestones and monitoring work in progress. Provide examples of experience initiating, developing or recommending new or changed practices and procedures to improve the level of service, program effectiveness, or efficiency of your organization or program. Provide specific examples and accomplishments that demonstrate your ability to accomplish work assignments and projects, with competing priorities and deadlines, within the prescribed time frames.) 5 Ability to compile/analyze data, extract sample transactions (statistically or randomly), and evaluate results toward the drawing of sound conclusions. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (Describe your experience demonstrating the ability to compile, analyze, and evaluate results in an effort to draw conclusions and make recommendations based on those conclusions. Discuss the recommendations you made involving improvements in effectiveness and efficiency of program operations and demonstrate how those recommendations made a positive impact on program operations, organizational productivity, and/or functional processes.) 6 Ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing. &nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (Describe specific training, education, experience, and /or accomplishments that demonstrate your ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing to all staff, including senior management. Provide specific examples of entrance and exit conferences you participated in, presentations made to others and management at various levels, and types of information that was exchanged. Provide specific examples of narratives, memos, reports, and other written correspondence you prepared when planning and executing internal control reviews, audits, and compliance reviews, and performing special projects. Provide examples of what was included in memos, narratives, and reports (e.g, executive summary, scope of work, results of findings, recommendations, etc.) 7 Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective work relationships with individuals at all levels, including managers and supervisors, coworkers, and staff personnel of other offices. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (Describe the various types and levels of individuals you routinely interact with and for what purposes. Describe your accomplishments developing and implementing successful approaches to discuss and resolve conflicts. Provide examples of specific assignments that required you to use tact and diplomacy to achieve cooperation and develop consensus. What techniques do you use to develop effective working relationships? Provide specific examples and accomplishments.) View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).