Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following best describe your experience maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 3 Which of the following examples reflects your skill in one or more of the following work processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Information services/Welcome Center operations (This would include services as providing information regarding directions, parking museum location, exhibits, special events, education, public programs, etc.). Floor operations (This includes maintaining adequate staff, meeting/greeting visitors, daily maintenance/upkeep, and monitoring and reporting repairs and services). Signage (This includes design or use of commercial signs, symbols or posters). Customer service (This includes providing information to visitors regarding all matters in the museum and/or building, interacting with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy, identifying customer needs or problems and taking corrective action, and maintaining composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people.) None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience providing leadership, direction and strategy in the management of a visitor information and volunteer management program in a museum? Answer to this question is required I have provided services and assistance to visitors in a large museum, cultural or educational facility. (Large means over 2 million visitors per year.) I have provided services and assistance to visitors in a mid-size museum, cultural or educational facility. (Mid-size means 1-2 million visitors per year I have provided services and assistance to visitors in a small museum, cultural or educational facility. (Small means under 1 million visitors per year.) I have provided services and assistance to visitors on a seasonal basis at a historical site, recreational site, or national park. None of the Above 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following describes your experience leading museum and volunteer professionals to develop and implement new ideas? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have assisted with training and/or workshops. I have developed training modules schedules and/or workshops. I have implemented policies and procedures for staff. I have developed policy and procedures for staff. I have assisted with preparing trainings and/or workshops on a multitude of topics related to collection information database usage. I have developed and conducted trainings and/or workshops on a multitude of topics related to collection information database usage. 7 Choose one statement that best describes your experience providing accessibility services for people with disabilities in a museum, research, or educational organization, especially for young adults with cognitive disabilities. Answer to this question is required I have experience providing, procuring, and/or ensuring accessibility services for people with disabilities in a museum, research, or educational organization. I have substantial experience providing, procuring, and/or ensuring accessibility services for people with disabilities, including for young adults with cognitive disabilities, in a museum, research, or educational organization and was responsible for oversight of the program at my organization, or served as the primary point of contact for all significant aspects of the program. My work experience does not include responsibility for providing accessibility services for people with disabilities in a museum, research, or educational organization; however, I have knowledge about requirements for accessibility services that should be made available to people with disabilities via training or formal course 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience working with paid staff to develop, coordinate and schedule visitor programs in a museum that receives large numbers of public visitors? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience leading a large team of paid staff in developing, scheduling and coordinating tours, accessibility services, and other activities for visitors in a fast paced, high-volume museum. I have experience leading a team in developing, scheduling and coordinating tours, accessibility services, and other activities for visitors in a high-volume museum. I have experience assisting in the development, scheduling and coordinating of tours, and other activities in a museum or cultural/historical site that receives large numbers of visitors. I do not have experience scheduling and/or coordinating public programs. 9 Which of the following museum visitor characteristics have you had training or experience in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Visitor perceptions. Visitor behaviors. Visitor accessibility needs. General needs of visitors. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience leading, motivating and/or training volunteers on regular basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assigned work to the volunteers. I have evaluated the training needs of volunteers. I have provided on-the-job training. I have coached and/or mentored volunteers or employees. I have recruited new volunteers. I have interviewed and hired new volunteers. I have developed and/or facilitated training classes for volunteers. I have worked with programs and initiatives to retain and develop current volunteers. I have no experience working with volunteers. 11 Which of the following describes your experience in leading and supervising a diverse staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff and volunteers in a museum program and have handled all aspects of hiring, appraisals, disciplinary actions and rewards. I have experience in motivating and influencing staff to support program goals and maintain morale. I have experience heading up teams that show a measurable increase in team productivity. I have advised management on staff resources and related decisions needed for supporting program goals, new program initiatives and for long term strategic plans. I have experience coordinating the work of staff, contractors, interns and volunteers in the development and execution of projects in an academic, cultural or government environment. None of the above. 12 Which of the following written communications have you established on behalf of a museum, cultural or educational venue? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Visitor service standards. Recruitment plans. Visitor welcome brochures. Wayfinding signage. Correspondence with visitors. None of the above 13 Which of the following written communications have you established on behalf of a museum, cultural or educational venue? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience independently defining. clarifying, and addressing challenges within the visitor services, volunteer, and accessibility programs in a museum with annual visitation over 3 million. I have experience independently defining, clarifying, and addressing challenges within the visitor services, volunteer, and accessibility programs of a mid-size museum. I have experience independently defining and clarifying challenges, gathering facts, and providing and explaining solutions within the visitor services and volunteer programs of a museum. I have experience, with supervisor support, defining and clarifying challenges, gathering facts, and providing and explaining solutions within the visitor services and volunteer programs of a museum. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.