Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience fabricating exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials including wood, metal, and synthetics? Answer to this question is required I have experience fabricating exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials including wood, metal, and synthetics. I have experience fabricating exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials. I have experience fabricating exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes. I have experience fabricating exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, and furniture. I have experience fabricating exhibit components. I do not have related experience. 5 Prepares, finishes and applies finishing materials to exhibits and components displayed in a museum specimen. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in preparing, finishing and applying finishing materials to exhibits and components displayed in a museum specimen. I have completed formal education or training in preparing, finishing and applying finishing materials to exhibits displayed in a museum specimen, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared, finished and applied finishing materials exhibits and components displayed in a museum specimen under close supervisiion by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have prepared, finished and applied finishing materials to exhibits and components displayed in a museum specimen, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Preparing, finishing and applying finishing material to exhibits and components displayed in a museum specimen has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have training others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Do you have experience selecting and applying appropriate finishes such as paint or varnish to museum quality exhibits Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best describes your experience working from rough drawings, renderings or written descriptions, consulting with designers, conservators, and curators to resolve inconsistencies? Answer to this question is required I have experience working from rough drawings, renderings or written descriptions, consulting with designers, conservators, and curators to resolve inconsistencies. I have experience working from rough drawings, renderings or written descriptions, consulting with designers, and conservators to resolve inconsistencies I have experience working from rough drawings, renderings or written descriptions, consulting with designers to resolve inconsistencies. I have experience working from rough drawings, renderings or written descriptions. I have experience working from rough drawings and renderings. I do not have related experience. 8 Do you have experience in a museum or similar institution performing tasks associated with the production of museum quality exhibits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience applying your skills to keep a wide variety of museum exhibits in good repair? Examples include repair, refurbishment, and creating or recreating exhibit graphical details; in-painting murals and wall coverings; repairing and reinforcing graphic components. Answer to this question is required I have no experience caring or maintaining graphical elements of exhibits I have graphic production skills but have not applied them to exhibit care Using my skills I perform exhibit graphical repair under supervision Using my skills I repair, refurbish, and recreate graphical elements and details to keep a wide variety of museum exhibits in good condition on a daily basis under supervision Using my skills I repair, refurbish, and recreate graphical elements and details independently to keep a wide variety of museum exhibits in good condition on a daily basis 10 Which of the following best describes your experience working with art media, graphic or commercial art, building materials, or structural components to support the development or installation of exhibits or interpretive materials? Answer to this question is required I regularly work with a variety of art media, graphic or commercial art elements, and building or structural materials to support exhibit development or installation, following established designs or plans. I have experience working with art media, graphic elements, or building materials to support exhibits or interpretive materials, with guidance from designers or project leads. I have assisted with exhibit-related work involving art media, graphic elements, or materials by following instructions or specifications. I have limited experience supporting work involving exhibit materials or visual elements. I do not have experience working with art media, graphic art, or exhibit-related materials. 11 Which of the following museum artifacts or collections have you been responsible for handling or installing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Sculpture. Installation art. Time-based media art (film, video, computer, audio). Works of art on paper. Textiles. Paintings. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience following proper safety procedures and monitoring the safety practices of other staff and contractors during installations including demonstrating the appropriate care and safe operation of machinery, tools, and art installation equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience following proper safety procedures and monitoring the safety practices of other staff and contractors during exhibit installations including demonstrating the appropriate care and safe operation of machinery, tools, and art installation equipment. I have experience following proper safety procedures and monitoring the safety practices of other staff and contractors during exhibit installations including demonstrating the appropriate care and safe operation of machinery, and tools. I have experience following proper safety procedures and monitoring the safety practices of other staff and contractors during exhibit installations including demonstrating the appropriate care and safe operation of machinery. I have experience following proper safety procedures and monitoring the safety practices of other staff and contractors during exhibit installations. I have experience following proper safety procedures. I do not have the related experience. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, work schedules, material lists, and cost estimates Answer to this question is required I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, work schedules, material lists, and cost estimates. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, and work schedules, material lists. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, and work schedules. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting. I do not have related experience. 14 Do you have experience coordinating work efforts with organizational staff to ensure project requirements and timelines are met? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.