Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience (1) Buying merchandise, tracking shipments, receiving shipments, and resolving vendor issues, (2) Developing product assortment and visual merchandizing plans for a retail business, (3) Developing sales forecasts, budgets, and financial planning for a retail business, (4) Performing data analysis, data entry and clerical duties in a retail environment, (5) Familiarity with Point-of-Sale systems. 2 Please select the computer software you have used to manage inventory and make buying decisions. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Planogram development and maintenance Open to buy program Point of sale generated reports Automatic inventory replenishment None of the above 3 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in product assortment planning and visual merchandising.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I was responsible for providing direction and leadership to a team to develop the product assortment and visual merchandising plans. I was part of a team that developed the product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business I was the sole person responsible for developing the product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business. I have limited experience developing a product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business. 4 How did you make efficient and effective buying decisions for a retail organization? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Managed an established open-to-buy. Collaborated with a team. Independently developed a buying plan. Used automated software reporting. Worked with a consultant or financial planner. None of the above. 5 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience problem solving customer service issues. Answer to this question is required I have identified customer service problems and notified senior employees for resolution. I generated ideas and proposed solutions to customer service problems. I independently developed and implemented solutions to resolve customer service problems. I provided guidance to others on how to resolve customer service problems. None of the above. 6 Please select the statement that best describes your experience with selecting merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Answer to this question is required Independently selected merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Worked in collaboration with a team in the selection of merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Assisted with the selection of merchandise for sale in a retail organization. I do not have any experience with selecting merchandise for sale in a retail organization. 7 Which issues have you encountered and resolved in your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Customers who are expecting a unique shopping experience. Customers who are looking for a specific retail item. Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available. Customers who request products which do not exist due to current policy. Customers who have difficult or challenging expectations of service. Customers who expect individual attention and customized service. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience successfully maintaining a budget and inventory plan in a retail environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience responding to impromptu financial and product questions from senior level management accurately in unstructured settings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following groups of people do you have experience working with? Answer to this question is required I have worked with individuals with a different level of skill than my own. I have worked with individuals from a different technical discipline than my own. I have worked with individuals with a different level of education than my own. . I have worked with individuals from a different culture than my own. I have worked with individuals from a different generation than my own. None of the above. 11 Select the types of individuals you have worked with to accomplish goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Members from varying departments. Managers or senior leadership. Coworkers within my own department. None of the above. 12 Which tasks have you performed to assess customer needs? Answer to this question is required Actively worked on the retail floor. Monitored customer comments or conversations for negative information. Utilized sales reports and merchandise trend analysis. Observed customer shopping habits. Interacted with sales associates to receive feedback on merchandise. Proactively asked customers if they needed assistance. None of the above. 13 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving sales and inventory problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving sales and inventory problems. I have resolved sales and inventory problems. I reported sales and inventory results to senior level management for resolution. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of sales and inventory problems. 14 Select the oral communication activities you have performed while in a customer service function. Answer to this question is required Worked at a front desk or other position where I served as a primary point-of-contact for customers. Worked in a high volume sales environment offering guidance and services. Actively engaged one-on-one with customers in conversation and offering assistance. Worked as part of a team to provide services. None of the above. 15 Which have you orally communicated to visitors or customers? Answer to this question is required Merchandise recommendations Guidance with the checkout process Location of specific policies, restrictions, and written guidance Alternative suggestions for products and/or services None of the above 16 Do you have experience using computers to balance budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Do you have experience using computers to search for and access information, files, or documents from a variety of electronic sources? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Please select the computer software applications you have used in a retail environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable I have not used any software applications in a retail environment. 19 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others. Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked. Offered coverage to ensure others received a break. Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained. Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets). None of the above. 20 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement purchase card? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.