Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have independently performed a major component of a high-end commercial, institutional or campus facility maintenance program. Answer to this question is required True False 2 Which of the following functions can you NOT perform? &nbsp; If multiple items apply, choose the one closest to the top of the list that you CANNOT perform. &nbsp; By making a selection, you are indicating you CANNOT perform this work. &nbsp; If you CAN perform all functions, choose the last item. Answer to this question is required Walk Climb ladders, scaffolds and platforms Work in in cramped and isolated locations Crawling, kneeling, bending, and stooping Work in in environments exposed to sudden change in temperature, humidity, dust, noise, and odor I can perform ALL these functions 3 Are you available for all-hours emergency calls on a Gallery-issued mobile device, except during approved leave periods? This includes evenings and weekends. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you available to work occasional weekend and evening overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have five or more years of experience supervising the work of several construction trades, working on facility maintenance and repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have five or more years of experience managing a maintenance and repair program for a large, historic museum or similar cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you been responsible for performing around-the-clock repairs for buildings marked by high visitation of the public? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following have you used on a regular basis in order to effect repairs or install materials? Answer to this question is required Building plans Construction blueprints Engineering drawings Material data safety sheet (MSDS) Repair manuals Verbal/personal instructions from a supervisor or technical lead Written work orders Other resources not listed here None of these 9 Indicate those actions you have performed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Checked mechanical equipment for safety purposes, before using Donned personal protective equipment (PPE), issued by an employer Blocked off hazardous work areas to prevent accidents among passers-by Completed manual labor adjacent to objects or structures of exceptionally high monetary value None of these actions 10 I have proficiency in using the following kinds of software applications. Proficiency means I can use them on a regular basis, without assistance, to accomplish my work. Answer to this question is required Word processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel) Databases (e.g., records management, Access) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Reporting tools (e.g., for data mining, statistical analysis) Research tools (e.g., technical data libraries) Project planning software (e.g., MS Project) Media Art with AV and software components Other kinds of applications not listed here None of the above 11 Have you developed and completed a formal, written return on investment (ROI) or cost/benefit analysis as part of a project justification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you ever been a certified contracting officer's technical representative (COTR) or contracting officer's representative (COR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you performed technical administration for construction or large maintenance repair contracts, for at least five years, in the private sector for, a building owner? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 I have experience independently Answer to this question is required completing non-federal procurement forms and preparatory documents. completing federal procurement forms and preparatory documents. establishing procurement time frames for a solicitation. defining funding and budgetary requirements for a procurement. managing a corporate procurement process manaing a federal procurement process doing none of these 15 Have you prepared budget estimates for senior management review? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Do you have experience developing financial management reports for senior executives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your work experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting a formal facilities condition assessment. I have been responsible for prioritizing the deficiencies found in a formal facilities condition assessment. I have been responsible for estimating the cost to repair each deficiency found in a formal facilities condition assessment. None of these statements accurately describes my work experience. 18 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your experience. Answer to this question is required I have spent at least six months supporting at least a small part of the Congressional Budget process. I have a working knowledge of budgeting for appropriated funds. I have a working knowledge of budgeting for trust funds. None of the above View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.