Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Holocaust Memorial Museum United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Museum Education Research History Remembrance Genocide Support Toggle navigation Museum Education Research History Remembrance Genocide Support Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 The U.S. Office of Personnel Management's (OPM's) current policy requires the review of all competitive and non-political excepted service appointment actions that involve the appointment or conversion of a current or former political appointee, Schedule C employee, or Noncareer SES member. A former or recent political appointee is someone who held a political appointment within the previous five-year period. Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period? Answer to this question is required True False Are you an active duty service member? You must submit a statement of discharge/certification of release or an official written document from the armed forces that certifies you are expected to be dishcharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions no later than 120 days from the date the announcement closes. Enlisted Record Briefs and military identification do NOT qualify as official documentation. If the appropriate information is not submitted to confirm the discharge status, dates of service, etc., you will not be considered for this job opportunity under Veterans Preference procedures. To gain access to your DD-214 online, please visit http://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records 2 Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' &amp; 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; SF-50 if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax in required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you authorize the U.S. Holocaust Museum to share your application for other similar positions in which you qualify? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Answer to this question is required I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 or equivalent and above): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include technical work in: drafting, surveying construction estimating, physical science, mathematics, aerospace, architecture, chemicals, electrical or mechanical systems, mining, petroleum, or nuclear systems. &nbsp; Experience in a trade or craft may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents. Examples are trade positions with substantial developmental, test, or design responsibilities such as: &nbsp; &middot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Planner and estimator who analyzed designs for production purposes. &middot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Instrument maker or model maker who performed design or development work on devices fabricated. 11 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lowest grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position ? 12 Specialized experience for the GS-12 must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-11 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. &nbsp; Select ONE statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the Engineering Technician at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent. Answer to this question is required A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level that clearly demonstrates knowledge, skills and abilities related to this position as follows: preparing contract documents to include detailed statements of work, plans, specifications, requests for proposals, cost estimates, and budgets for moderately complex construction, maintenance, and repair projects; developing detailed statements of work, specifications, requests for proposal, and cost estimates; performing full range of Contracting Officer’s Representative’s (COR) responsibilities as required on assigned contracts; inspects contract work in progress and/or upon completion for compliance with contract specifications and technical provisions and recommends corrective action; managing the Auto/CADD system and providing CADD drafting support for in-house construction engineering projects. My experience is not reflected in the above statement. 13 Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Answer to this question is required Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position View Vacancy Details This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).