Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 To qualify, you must possess ALL of the following: Successful completion of a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association and possession of at least the initial professional law degree (J.D.); Bar Membership: You must be an active member of the bar; in good standing of a State, a Territory of the United States, District of Columbia or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and Experience: You must have at least 2 years of relevant legal experience as a practicing attorney, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position, with demonstrated skill in preparing for litigation and specialized experience applying Federal Government personnel law, the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), Federal procurement and appropriations law, and/or Government ethics rules. 1 Do you meet all requirements listed above for this position at the GS-14 level? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 15 To qualify, you must possess ALL of the following: Successful completion of a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association and possession of at least the initial professional law degree (J.D.); Bar Membership: You must be an active member of the bar; in good standing of a State, a Territory of the United States, District of Columbia or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and Experience: You must have at least 5 years of relevant legal experience as a practicing attorney, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position, with demonstrated skill in preparing for litigation and specialized experience applying Federal Government personnel law, the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), Federal procurement and appropriations law, and/or Government ethics rules. 1 Do you meet all requirements listed above for this position at the GS-15 level? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The following question(s) are related to the questions asked previously in this announcement. You can review your responses by using the "Previous" button at the bottom of the screen. Please review and follow the below instructions. Respond to each question. If you do not have related experience, enter "N/A" in the space provided. Your responses to all of the questions in this announcement must be substantiated by the information in your resume. For each web page, the system will time out after one hour of inactivity and your unsaved entries will be lost. If you wish to save your responses and come back later to complete your application, enter placeholder text in each empty text space and select the "Next" button at the bottom of the page. After responding to the following questions, proceed through the rest of the application process and provide any required information and forms. To submit your application, select the "Submit" button at the bottom of the "Application Review" page. You must select the "Submit" button or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page". You can choose to download part or all of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's Dashboard website from this page. If you return to the announcement and make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit Application" button on the "Application Review" screen to complete your application. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).