Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of event space arrangement, set-up, and service procedures. ** Provided proper room preparation and staging for various events, including: 1) setting up and placement of audio visual equipment; 2) setting of food service and equipment according to formal dining protocols; 3) arranging furniture and decor; 4) coordinating with material handlers or vendor employees for proper room and equipment arrangement; and 5) facilitating appropriate tear-downs following events. Answer to this question is required Worked independently to provide proper room set-up for a wide range of large, high-profile events including ALL of the above tasks. Worked under the guidance of higher-level staff to provide proper room set-up for events that vary in size and status. Activities involved THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Assisted others in providing proper room set-up for events. Activities involved ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above tasks. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interpret instructions in order to plan, organize, and execute work. ** Worked independently, made decisions, planned operations, showed job responsibility, and exercised initiative. Followed specific oral or written instructions in performing event operations, food service or similar duties. Answer to this question is required Planned and organized the preparation of simple foods or beverages, the proper set-up of service areas, and the stocking, storing, and rotation of inventory. Made final check of delivered products. Instructed lower-grade workers on technical work matters. Worked independently and adapted procedures to meet serving and set-up requirements for formal events, such as luncheons, dinners, receptions, or similar affairs. Assisted in event set-up and food services. Assisted in resolving problems and issues related to event services requirements. Followed written work operating guidelines to plan and organize the preparation of moderately complex event and food service set-ups. Instructed lower grade workers in the proper set-up of service areas. Followed verbal instructions on changes in procedures and special requirements. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to coordinate and facilitate a variety of special events. ** Worked productively, effectively, and accurately in a fast-paced and demanding special events work environment. In doing so, performed various special events and official function work assignments for an agency/organization, including for the following events: 1) exhibition openings; 2) cultural ceremonies and celebrations; 3) visits by outside groups; 4) meetings and conferences; and 5) luncheons, dinners and receptions. Answer to this question is required Independently supported MULTIPLE complex events simultaneously while responding to various individuals. Has facilitated ALL of the event types above. Independently supported a SINGLE complex event while responding to various individuals. Has facilitated THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the event types above. With minor supervision, supported a SINGLE complex event while responding to various individuals. Has assisted in facilitating ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the event types above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and maintain relationships with others. ** Developed and maintained relationships with others (in-house organizations, other government agencies, contractors, vendors, VIPs, dignitaries, political officials, staff at all levels and the general public) to provide positive and professional services related to special events planning. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, regularly served as operational event support for a large multi-functional agency, collaborating with a wide variety of persons inside and outside the organization to ensure complex special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with persons who often held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and issues. As a primary job responsibility, regularly served as operational event support for an organization, collaborating with a wide variety of persons inside and outside the organization to ensure complex special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Served as the backup operational event support for a small company, collaborating with persons inside the organization to ensure special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to perform inventory control and maintain budget for events. Ability to develop, form, and justify budgets for event service supplies and equipment required to support events, including: 1) researching options and recommending food, decor, and other event features; 2) maintaining inventory of event equipment; 3) arranging regular maintenance and cleaning contracts for supplies and equipment; 4) making recommendations for improvement or replacement of equipment and accessories; and 5) calculating budgetary needs and disbursement of funds for events based upon established aids and formulas. Answer to this question is required Independently performed inventory control and developed budgets in support of events for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed ALL of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, performed inventory control and developed budgets in support of events for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Under minimal supervision, performed inventory control and developed budgets in support of events for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above tasks. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).