Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, conducts inmate discipline hearing program oversight, including directing testimony and explaining procedures and findings to private contract Discipline Hearing Officers (DHOs). He/she trains private correctional staff in the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) inmate discipline process, and deals with contract correctional staff, managers, and Executive Staff to resolve problems, exchange information, and defend controversial decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have oversaw the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) program at an institution, regional, or national level; and/or I have directed corrective action when necessary on Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) sanctions; and/or I have provided individual training in inmate discipline for contractors when requested; and/or I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management regarding controversial issues, and/or persuading or implementing new ideas and concepts; and/or I have administered a program which involved conducting administrative fact-finding hearings. I have chaired Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have conducted Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) hearings as an alternate Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO); and/or I have chaired an association board hearing to determine whether a member should be fined; and/or I have conducted complex Special Investigative Services (SIS) investigations; and/or I have facilitated a national training conference. I have conducted Special Emphasis Program meetings; and/or I have facilitated an association’s board meeting; and/or I have directed a panel while interviewing applicants; and/or I have interviewed employees while investigating an incident; and/or I have facilitated a meeting for an internal audit. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, oversees a national program which ensures the preparation of hearing documentation which includes a summary of the charges, evidence and testimony, details the facts relied upon to support the finding, and ensures there is an explanation as to why the sanctions were imposed. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a detailed memorandum recommending a change in procedure; and/or I have written a recommendation to the Probation Office for an inmate’s relocation upon release; and/or I have written a justification to support a request for additional resources; and/or I have written a Special Investigative Services (SIS) investigative report recommending an inmate be transferred or made a separatee; and/or I have prepared written responses to Inmate Requests to staff. I have written case studies; and/or I have developed policies, technical direction, and memorandums for all contract facilities nationally; and/or I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management; and/or I have developed new techniques and established new procedures without deviating from criminal law; and/or I have provided written reports concerning the overall operation of the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) program to include training; and/or I have provided statistical data for the Contract Facility Monitoring Team. I have written investigative reports; and/or I have written a legal brief; and/or I have written inmate progress reports for the court or parole board; and/or I have written a new Institution Supplement describing technical procedures; and/or I have written a record of decision and disposition of a hearing; and/or I have written an agency response for a third party hearing. None of the above. 6 In order to assess evidence and charges and to ensure that procedural requirements are adhered to in the inmate discipline process, the Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, must interpret and apply agency and institution policy, federal regulations, case law, and other precedent decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed investigation reports to determine if a violation was committed; and/or I have imposed a penalty in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); and/or I have ensured procedural requirements were followed in a Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) hearing. I have referred to policy and determined actions required based on case assessment; and/or I have designed procedures to comply with new or revised national policy; and/or I have made recommendations for a furlough request; and/or I have conducted reviews of inmates placed in disciplinary segregation. I have determined action steps by researching policy and regulations to identify requirements applicable to an unusual case; and/or I have researched regulations to identify best corrective action for resolution of procedural error; and/or I have researched and applied judicial rulings governing the factual basis of the cases to be decided. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, must be able to evaluate, develop and implement policies that ensure efficient management of operations and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau requirements, objectives and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed Special Investigative Services (SIS) duties in a correctional institution; and/or I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques training or new employee orientation to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in internal audits; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have performed duties of a Special Investigative Agent (SIA) in a correctional complex; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have served on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the Duty Officer program for an institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have coordinated the Admission and Orientation (A&O) Program at an institution; and/or I have applied theory and policy in deciding inmate program assignments or resolving conflicts; and/or I have identified discipline related issues that required training staff for resolution; and/or I have prepared and coordinated a mock exercise for training purposes; and/or I have participated on an After Action Review Committee following a disturbance. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, conducts inmate discipline hearing program oversight, including directing testimony and explaining procedures and findings to private contract Discipline Hearing Officers (DHOs). He/she trains private correctional staff in the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) inmate discipline process, and deals with contract correctional staff, managers, and Executive Staff to resolve problems, exchange information, and defend controversial decisions.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have provided technical guidance to field offices regarding intelligence gathering or investigative protocols on highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to intelligence gathering; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have coordinated efforts to work jointly with National Joint Terrorism Task Force to share/gather intelligence information with other agencies; and/or I have liaison with other Federal law enforcement agencies to share intelligence information on open and on-going cases, which resulted in additional investigative cases being initiated; and/or I have participated on a work group which included members of upper management/Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented an agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have chaired Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have conducted Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) hearings as an alternate Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO); and/or I have chaired an association board hearing to determine whether a member should be fined; and/or I have conducted complex Special Investigative Services (SIS) investigations; and/or I have facilitated a national training conference. I oversaw the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) program at an institution, regional, or national level; and/or I have directed corrective action when necessary on Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) sanctions; and/or I have provided individual training in inmate discipline for contractors when requested; and/or I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management regarding controversial issues, and/or persuading or implementing new ideas and concepts; and/or I have administered a program which involved conducting administrative fact-finding hearings. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, oversees a national program which ensures the preparation of hearing documentation which includes a summary of the charges, evidence and testimony, details the facts relied upon to support the finding, and ensures there is an explanation as to why the sanctions were imposed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written case studies; and/or I have developed policies, technical direction, and memorandums for all contract facilities nationally; and/or I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management; and/or I have developed new techniques and established new procedures without deviating from criminal law; and/or I have provided written reports concerning the overall operation of the Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO) program to include training; and/or I have provided statistical data for the Contract Facility Monitoring Team). I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide which explained laws and regulations, in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal, magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by an agency/organization; and/or I have developed a new training curriculum, lesson plan and course materials for new investigative/intelligence gathering methods or techniques; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have written investigative reports; and/or I have written a legal brief; and/or I have written inmate progress reports for the court or parole board; and/or I have written a new Institution Supplement describing technical procedures; and/or I have written a record of decision and disposition of a hearing; and/or I have written an agency response for a third party hearing. None of the above. 6 In order to assess evidence and charges and to ensure that procedural requirements are adhered to in the inmate discipline process, the Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, must interpret and apply agency and institution policy, federal regulations, case law, and other precedent decisions.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed investigation reports to determine if a violation was committed; and/or I have imposed a penalty in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); and/or I have ensured procedural requirements were followed in a Unit Discipline Committee (UDC) hearing. I have determined action steps by researching policy and regulations to identify requirements applicable to an unusual case; and/or I have researched regulations to identify best corrective action for resolution of procedural error; and/or I have researched and applied judicial rulings governing the factual basis of the cases to be decided. I have developed and implemented policies/plans/programs which significantly improved the quality of a facility’s operation; and/or I have analyzed the needs, quality, and effectiveness of programs; and/or I have resolved complex issues in compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have developed and provided training to meet department goals and responsibilities; and/or I have developed internal review procedures to ensure continuous policy compliance was maintained; and/or I have served as a Reviewer-in-Charge (RIC) for an external audit. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Discipline Hearing Officer, must be able to evaluate, develop and implement policies that ensure efficient management of operations and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau requirements, objectives and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed/oversaw the intelligence and investigative activities as a Regional Administrator; and/or I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired an internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have performed Special Investigative Services (SIS) duties in a correctional institution; and/or I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques training or new employee orientation to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in internal audits; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have performed duties of a Special Investigative Agent (SIA) in a correctional complex; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have served on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the Duty Officer program for an institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).