Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Select the statement below that describes your knowledge of museum or cultural institutions registration methods and collections management practices. Answer to this question is required Expertise in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department Highly experienced in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department Basic knowledge in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department No knowledge of museum or cultural institution registration methods and collection management. 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience with registration procedures and processes in a museum. (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have evaluated registration processes and procedures to determine what changes need to be made. I have participated in the revision of registration processes and procedures. I have led an effort to restructure registration processes and procedures. I have developed new registration processes and/or procedures. I have incorporated technology (such as use of a collections information database) into registration procedures and processes to modernize the operations and improve their efficiency. I have communicated new or revised registration processes and procedures to staff. I have trained and oriented staff in registration processes and procedures. None of the above. 4 Describe you level of knowledge of the ethical and legal principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, shipping, and tracking of museum objects? Answer to this question is required Expert in the ethical and legal principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, shipping, and tracking of museum objects. Serve as consult to all levels of management. Sound knowledge of ethical and legal principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, shipping, and tracking of museum objects. Train and develop others. Good ethical and legal principles governing museum registration and practices used in the registration, shipping, and tracking of museum objects of museum objects. No knowledge of ethical and legal principles in museum registration. 5 Which of the following statement(s) best describe your experience in managing a museum registration program? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience managing multiple program functions including acquisitions, object shipping and receiving, and incoming and outgoing loans. I have experience allocating, reviewing, and reallocating resources for competing programmatic needs. I have worked with management to implement program functions and programmatic changes I have assisted my supervisor in implementing programmatic changes affecting staff. I have no experience managing multiple programs. 6 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision or lead subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's or teammate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate or teammates employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates or teammates . I have assigned work to subordinates or teammates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates or teammates . I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and/or coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements describes your communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with staff within the organization. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. . I have experience justifying, persuading, negotiating, or resolving matters involving significant program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy, practice or procedure. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the Above Apply. 8 Which of the following statements best describe your experience in providing oral presentations? Answer to this question is required I have led conferences and briefings with groups outside of my organization. I have led briefings with managers within my organization. I have given presentations to peers within my organization. I have formal training in public speaking or an undergraduate degree in Communications. None of the above 9 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had experience in writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, and recommendations to the supervisors or higher management for changes in the content of draft reports written by others. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports, and I have made recommendations to supervisors or higher management regarding changes in the style of draft reports written by others. I have had experience in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have prepared correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have notified individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. I have trained others in written communication. I have not performed any of the tasks above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.