Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 All librarians must meet the requirements for professional education in library science or possess equivalent experience and education. I have: A. Completion of 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree; or B.&nbsp; A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Knowledge of music and related subject areas in the performing arts.** Used specialized knowledge of music and related subject areas in the performing arts to carry out archival functions and provide services to the public. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of music and dance and/or theater to carry out archival functions and provide services to the public. Expert knowledge is defined has having extremely broad and extensive knowledge in the fields of music, theater, and/or dance, sufficient to be knowledgeable of the significant figures, practices, and trends in one or more of those fields. Such knowledge may be acquired through rigorous academic training in one or more of those areas and/or by very extensive experience in archival work with one or more of those areas, sufficient to be recognized as an authority in this area. Applied advanced knowledge of music and dance and/or theater to carry out archival functions and provide services to the public. Advanced knowledge is defined as having considerable knowledge of many aspects of the fields of music, theater, and/or dance, sufficient to recognize many important figures, practices, and trends in one or more of these fields, and to be able to apply appropriate best practices to archival collections in one or more of those fields. Applied general knowledge of music and dance and/or theater to carry out archival functions and provide services to the public. General knowledge is defined as having a basic knowledge of the fields of music, theater, and/or dance, sufficient to be able to follow processing plans and instructions with respect to archival collections in one or more of those fields and recognizing the most important names and titles in one or more of these fields of music, theater, and/or dance. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide acquisition and collection development activities in the field of performing arts.** Provided collections development activities to acquire collections by gift, deposit, or purchase.&nbsp; In doing so, performed the following activities:&nbsp; 1) managed exchanges and exchange agreements with outside institutions or individuals, 2) designed and coordinated surveys and analyses to determine collections' strengths and weaknesses, 3) developed new approaches in solving problems and expanding services, 4) planned and developed programs to augment collections to improve services to clientele, 5) recommended the establishment of new collections, 6) selected new materials for existing collections, 7) prepared justifications for acquiring new or additional materials, and 8) advised on collection content. Answer to this question is required Built or substantially enhanced a major collection that is of national or international significance, via acquisitions (i.e., through donations and purchases); developed and monitored short-range and long-range plans for collection development. Performed ALL of the above activities. Built or substantially enhanced a significant collection via acquisitions (i.e., through donations and purchases); developed and monitored plans for collection development. Performed SIX or SEVEN of the above activities. Assisted with the development of a collection via acquisition (i.e., through donations and purchases); helped create plans for collection development. Performed at least FOUR or FIVE of the above activities including 3), 4), and 6). None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide outreach, consultation and liaison services.** Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals such as: 1) institutional stakeholders in the field of performing arts (e.g., composers, choreographer, authors, dramaturgs, directors, producers, orchestrators, performers), 2) co-workers, 3) management officials, 4) the general public with particular reference to infrequent users, nonusers, and underserved communities, and 5) professional colleagues such as contractors, academics, donors, and those representing foundations, associations, government and industry. This included providing outreach, consultation, and liaison services to exchange information with individuals inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including ALL of those listed above. Provided outreach, consultation, and liaison services to exchange information in the field of performing arts. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of those listed above. Provided outreach, consultation and liaison services to exchange information in the field of performing arts. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including AT LEAST TWO (2) of those listed above. Provided outreach and consultation services to exchange information. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science. Applied professional knowledge of library and information science principles, concepts and techniques to manage library functions and carry out library programs such as: 1) acquisitions, 2) collection development, 3) reference, 4) circulation, etc. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a broad range of a major agency and/or library functions and programs. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library environment. Demonstrated basic or a general knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a library program. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to provide reference and research services. Researches and provides in-depth information on items or collections to staff and patrons and providing expert advice on items and collections' use.&nbsp; In doing so, performed the following activities:&nbsp; 1) provides regular outreach and serves as a consultant, 2) provides desk coverage and answers reference questions, 3) performs information searches, conducts research and analysis, 4) collaborates with others to identify, retrieve, retrieve and produce materials in a timely manner, 5) analyze requests and suggest search strategies, 6) makes presentations, and 7) prepares reports. Answer to this question is required Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and performed ALL of the above activities. Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and performed FIVE to SIX of the above activities. Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and performed THREE to FOUR of the above activities. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to effectively communicate in writing. Prepared written reports related to the position such as: 1) planning documents, 2) finding aids, 3) policies and procedures, 4) project plans and reports, 5) formal and informal correspondence, 6) speeches/presentations, 7) program notes, and 8) reports. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, wrote ALL of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote SEVEN of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote FIVE or SIX of the above documents. None of the above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).