Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of library digital content management principles and practices.** Applied professional knowledge of digital content management principles and practices to plan, develop, and implement processes and services for the management of digital library collections. Experience includes knowledge of digital collections and collecting including: 1) web archiving, 2) multiple digital formats, 3) metadata, 4) digital repositories, 5) digital preservation best practices and standards, 6) monitoring and reporting on status and growth of digital collections, and 7) tools and techniques for automating the management of digital content. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. Knowledge was gained through work experience involving multiple complex digital content programs or projects. Experience includes in-depth knowledge of ALL of the above. Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. Knowledge was gained through work experience involving a large, complex digital content management program or project. Experience includes in-depth knowledge of FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. Knowledge was gained through work experience involving a digital content management program or project. Experience includes in-depth knowledge of FOUR (4) of the above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to perform project development and management duties.** Demonstrated ability to perform project management duties to implement digital library projects.&nbsp;&nbsp;Experience applying standard project management techniques, including: 1) serving as project lead; 2) maintaining project schedules and tracking deliverables; 3) developing and implementing workflows; 4) developing communications plans; 5) developing project documentation; and 6) performing risk analyses. Answer to this question is required Served as a project manager for multiple library projects involving digital collections held by the organization/institution. Performed ALL of the above activities. Served as a project manager for a library project involving digital collections held by the organization/institution. Performed FOUR (4) OR FIVE (5) of the activities above. Served as a project manager for a library project involving digital collections held by the organization/institution. Performed THREE (3) of the activities above. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to research and analyze technical issues. Researched and analyzed issues pertinent to standards and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content. This included knowledge in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital library content preservation and services. Answer to this question is required Used a variety of methods to research, collect, and analyze best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content. Used results of analysis to prepare written report(s) and presentations on digital projects or services. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital lifecycle management best practices and tools by following the literature; joining and being active in technical groups or organizations; attending technical conferences; and taking classes in the field. Used a variety of methods to research and collect information on best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content for the purpose of providing it to managers for analysis. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital content lifecycle management best practices and tools by following the literature; joining and being active in technical groups or organizations; attending technical conferences and/or taking classes in the field. Researched and analyzed information on best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content under the guidance of supervisor or other senior co-workers for the purpose of providing it to others. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, and accurate work products understandable to management, staff, and others to support the objectives of an organization. These documents included: 1) project proposals, 2) analytical reports, 3) policies and procedures, 4) program or initiative planning documents, 5) contract statements of work, 6) business requirements, including user stories, and 7) presentations on digital library topics. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including ALL of the above. Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including 2), 3) and 7). Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised FOUR (4) of the above documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including items 2), 3) and 7) listed above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Established and maintained cooperative work relationships to provide or exchange information and professional knowledge related to digital content management for liaison duties such as: &nbsp;1) solving technical problems, 2) interacting collaboratively on projects, 3) planning and implementing workflow procedures, 4) proposing production goals, 5) training and/or demonstrating workflows to staff, and 6) exchanging information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Served as the principal liaison to various professional organizations and established relationships with other specialists to coordinate and share resources and information. Maintained close contact with project partners inside and outside of the organization regarding digital workflow management, the acquisition of digital files, and the development of workflow for archive growth. Presented information to groups and persons with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject areas. Developed professional contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships. Presented and explained technical or specialized information to groups and persons inside and outside the organization with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject areas. Maintained professional contacts or cooperative work relationships with persons inside and outside the organization and presented information to groups and persons with a similar understanding of the subject. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).