Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 5 Which best describes your highest level of experience with museum collections documentation? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in a physical inventory by matching records with items. I have independently matched records to items and have identified inconsistencies in the records. I have independently matched records to items, identified inconsistencies, and resolved those inconsistencies. I have no experience with collections documentation. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with collection information management? Answer to this question is required I have overseen a collections information system that is both accurate and reliable. I have regularly input collections data relating to acquisitions, loans and the movement of objects. I have input collections information data. I am not familiar with collections information and management. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with legal and ethical issues in a museums related to acquisitions, shipping, and loans (referred to below as "legal and ethical issues in museums")? Answer to this question is required I have used expert knowledge about legal and ethical issues in museums to resolve these issues. I have assisted with addressing legal and ethical issues in museums. I am knowledgeable about legal and ethical issues in museums, but have no experience in dealing with them. I do not have any knowledge or experience with legal or ethical issues in museums. 8 Which of the following describes your training or experience with legal and ethical issues relating to natural science and/or cultural collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated experience in legal and ethical issues relating to natural science collections through publications and presentations. I have demonstrated experience in legal and ethical issues relating to natural science collections through membership in technical working groups or professional societies. I have served as the lead responsible party for a large and complex natural history or cultural organization. I have experience in working with collections that present legal or ethical issues. I have experience in processing collections loans, acquisitions, and disposals according to regulations and ethical guidelines. I have had training in processing collections loans, acquisitions, and disposals according to regulations and ethical guidelines. I have no experience with legal and ethical issues in collections. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with acquisitions (accessions, deaccesions, disposals) in a museum? Answer to this question is required I have managed an acquisitions program. I have worked independently to process accessions, deaccesions, and disposals. I have worked under guidance to process accessions, deaccesions, and disposals. I understand how to process accessions, deaccesions, and disposals, but have no direct experience in doing the work. I am not familiar with processing accessions, deaccesions, and disposals. 10 Which of the following best describes your supervisory experience in a museum? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff and subordinate supervisors or project managers. I have supervised subordinate staff. I have had training but no experience supervising other staff. I have no experience supervising other staff. 11 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have recruited and hired staff. I have reassigned, demoted, or removed staff. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with museum program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have prepared and tracked the annual program budget as a regular component of my work. I have prepared and tracked budgets for specific projects. I have contributed to the development of an annual program budget. I have gathered budgetary information for specific line items, as directed. I have no experience preparing budgets. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have determined appropriate format and generated written summary and detailed report. I have experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda and in making recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in content of draft reports written by others. I have had experience in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have developed operating instructions and/or formal instructions or directives. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports or other written materials for specialized audiences or for distribution. I have prepared correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have written papers that make recommendations for action and provided the pros and cons for decisions to be made by management. I have notified individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems or further actions, as needed. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 14 Which of the following types of written products have you prepared? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Training/instructional aids. Standardized reports. Procedures and guidelines. Formal correspondence. Non-research articles. Other written communication. None of the above. 15 With which of the following audiences have you communicated in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Customers In-house staff Contractors Vendors Management None of the above 16 Which of the following best represents your level of experience interacting with staff and the public in a museum setting? Answer to this question is required I routinely respond verbally to inquiries from the public and museum staff regarding collections, visitor information, logistics, and information on specialized subjects. I occasionally respond verbally to inquiries from the public regarding collections and visitor information. I have infrequently responded verbally to inquiries from the public regarding collections information. I have no experience in this area. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.