Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following have you managed or overseen? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Custodial operations Custodial operations in a building with historic assets Labor/ Recycler operations Special event planning and operations management Unionized workforces High-profile stakeholder relationships 4 In which of the following areas have you provided leadership or oversight? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Strategic planning Organizational change initiatives Contract administration Budget development and execution Congressional correspondence or inquiries Labor relations or union negotiations Stakeholder communications Emergency preparedness None of the above 5 What is your experience with strategic planning? Answer to this question is required I led the development and implementation of enterprise-wide strategic plans. I contributed to strategic plans developed by others. I have participated in strategic discussions but not planning. I have no experience in strategic planning. 6 Which budget-related activities have you performed? (Select all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Developed annual budget estimates Justiﬁed budget requests to senior leadership or Congress Managed multi-year appropriations Oversaw contract awards and execution Conducted ﬁnancial analysis and forecasting Zero-Based Budget (ZBB) None of the above 7 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work assignments. Provided guidance regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 8 Please&nbsp;describe your managerial level leadership experience delivering facilities management services with a workforce comprised of a variety of skills and trades. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 10 Please&nbsp;describe your experience formulating and executing facilities operation or client service programs for a complex of large buildings or monumental facilities to include budget development, strategic and projects planning and execution, process improvement and organizational change. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Which laws, regulations, or codes have you interpreted and applied to oversee commercial/industrial facilities management?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Americans with Disabilities Act, including accessibility guidelines International Building Codes Historic preservation standards Lead-based paint regulations Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations Davis-Bacon Act None of the above 12 Please&nbsp;provide an example of how you resolved a difficult and complex technical, project management or organizational problem using innovative and original approaches. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 What is the largest number of people (e.g., tenants, clients, coworkers) impacted by an operational program you managed? Answer to this question is required 100 or less 101-1000 1000-5000 More than 5000 I do not have experience managing operational services or projects 14 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the contract management functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs). Participating in the acquisition planning process. Assessing competitive bidding procedures. Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals. Developing independent cost estimates. Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation. None of the above. 16 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering a project or program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External customers and/or stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 17 What best describes your experience coordinating with high-level stakeholders (e.g., Senators, congressional staff, oversight committees)? Answer to this question is required I regularly coordinate and brief high-level stakeholders on sensitive issues. I occasionally support others in stakeholder engagement efforts. I have limited experience in high-level stakeholder engagement. I have no experience working with high-level stakeholders. 18 Which best describes your experience with emergency or contingency planning? Answer to this question is required I developed and executed emergency preparedness or continuity of operations plans. I contributed to planning efforts but did not lead them. I’ve received training in emergency protocols but never used them. I have no experience in emergency or contingency planning. 19 What best describes your approach to organizational change? Answer to this question is required I have led major change initiatives and managed their implementation. I have supported change efforts led by others. I have experience adapting to change but not leading it. I have limited experience with organizational change. 20 Which tools or strategies have you used for workforce development? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Coaching and mentoring Training needs assessments Succession planning Career development plans EEO and diversity initiatives Disciplinary or performance counseling None of the above 21 Choose the management tasks you have performed.&nbsp; (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed cost estimates based on drawings or blueprints Managed project, group, or shop material budget Interacted with sales representatives to obtain quotes and services Ordered materials and equipment Interacted with clients and handled client requests None of the above 22 In which contexts have you provided customer or stakeholder engagement? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Coordinating directly with Members’ offices or senior leaders on service requests Facilitating cross division coordination for special events or services Preparing reports or data for leadership decision making Delivering briefings or presentations to executives Resolving client complaints and ensuring satisfaction Developing process improvements to enhance customer service None of the above 23 Select all examples of Client Services in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Managed custodial operations Managed custodial operations in a building with historic assets Managed an inventory management facility Managed a service center branch across multiple buildings/functions Provided and managed labor services Received client requests and created work orders Tracked client concerns and guaranteed customer satisfaction Earned bonus or award for superior customer/client service Earned multiple bonuses or awards for superior customer/client service None of the above 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 24.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.