Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must&nbsp;be a licensed psychologist or licensed psychiatrist assigned to complete an evaluation for the Federal Court System. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed Psychologist or licensed Psychiatrist assigned to complete an evaluation for the Federal Court System . No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological and neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. He/she evaluates and/or oversees the evaluation of inmates to assess sexual dangerousness, general dangerousness, competency to stand trial, and/or the offender&rsquo;s responsibility for his behavior at the time of the offense, diminished capacity, presentencing, and need for treatment evaluations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological assessment, objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, intelligence assessment or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have conducted a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments; and/or I have carried a psychotherapy caseload at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have completed psychological assessments in a correctional or inpatient clinical setting assessing risk of violence/dangerousness for sex offenders; and/or I have conducted psychological assessments of sex offenders on probation. I have co-conducted psychological assessments such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological assessment, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment; and/or I have administered neuropsychological tests and summarized their results; and/or I have administered and scored psychological testing instruments to research subjects in a validation study or any other research project. I have conducted at least one type of psychological assessment such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological screening, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results; and/or I have assisted others in sex offender evaluation or treatment; and/or I have assisted others in conducting psychological assessments of sex offenders on probation. None of the above. 6 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist is responsible for reviewing, evaluating and ensuring the protocols and procedures related to the evaluation of civilly committed sex offenders within the Commitment and Treatment Program are administered based on established policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated an internal audit team for psychology; and/or I have conducted review of operations to determine compliance with American Correctional Association or Joint Commission Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations guidelines; and/or I have collected materials/report for an operational review or internal audit. I have drafted guidance memorandums regarding interpretation of rules, policies and procedures for a psychology treatment program; and/or I have developed and implemented perpetual audits to remain policy compliant; and/or I have served as a reviewer in charge on a program review or a comparable external audit. I have developed case law presentations; and/or I have presented a seminar with topics including proper procedures for conducting forensic evaluations; and/or I have consulted with legal staff regarding civil commitment cases and policies. None of the above. 7 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist is responsible for providing expert opinions in court testimony on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He/she provides forensic consultation and advice to the Commitment and Treatment Program staff, administration, and other disciplines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a mock-testimony session regarding sexual dangerousness; and/or I have provided mock testimony in a non-court setting as a clinical exercise; and/or I have co-led a pre-doctoral training or workshop on introductory forensic issues (i.e., competency, responsibility or dangerousness due to mental illness). I have provided treatment updates to courts and criminal justice personnel; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have actively participated in a post-doctoral workshop on adult forensic psychological practice issues; and/or I have provided post-doctoral supervision in handling court ordered evaluations and treatment. I have testified in an adult criminal justice setting regarding competency to stand trial and responsibility at the time of the offense; and/or I have used psycho-diagnostic assessment techniques to evaluate defendants for mental illness as it relates to court proceedings and judgements; and/or I have consulted with others (i.e., treatment staff, attorneys and/or administrators) regarding forensic findings. None of the above. 8 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist writes technical materials on civilly committed sex offender assessment, treatment, policy, and or training materials. He/she possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively convey technical information about civilly committed sex offenders to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided, sworn out of court testimony, to assist others in gathering information during the discovery process; and/or I have contributed to strategic plans; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying decisions made by the psychology department; and/or I have developed standardized operating procedures/manual/procedural guides, in laymen’s terms. I have prepared a technical report/training document related to a clinical/treatment program; and/or I have revised internal policy such as an Institution Supplement or Operations memoranda related to the clinical mission; and/or I have written memorandums to staff to advise them of new policies or procedures related to committed inmates treatment; and/or I have composed Congressional responses in response to civilly committed sex offenders inquiries. I have identified and developed targeted interventions; and/or I have generated comprehensive psychological assessment report including a diagnostic evaluation; and/or I have developed written systems of control in response to published program statements and departmental guidance; and/or I have conducted pre-doctoral workshops or training activities on generating technical psychological written products. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must&nbsp;be a licensed psychologist or licensed psychiatrist assigned to complete an evaluation for the Federal Court System. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed Psychologist or licensed Psychiatrist assigned to complete an evaluation for the Federal Court System . No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological and neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. He/she evaluates and/or oversees the evaluation of inmates to assess sexual dangerousness, general dangerousness, competency to stand trial, and/or the offender&rsquo;s responsibility for his behavior at the time of the offense, diminished capacity, presentencing, and need for treatment evaluations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening test, objective personality assessment, individually-administered intelligence assessment, violence risk assessment, suicide risk assessment or assessment to determine training/educational; and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results; and/or I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of clinical staff who conducted psychological assessments; and/or I have, in a prison-based residential treatment program for sex offenders, conducted risk assessments of civilly committed sex offenders. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological assessment, objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, intelligence assessment or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have conducted a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments; and/or I have carried a psychotherapy caseload at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have completed psychological assessments in a correctional or inpatient clinical setting assessing risk of violence/dangerousness for sex offenders; and/or I have conducted psychological assessments of sex offenders on probation. I have conducted at least one type of psychological assessment such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological screening, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results; and/or I have assisted others in sex offender evaluation or treatment; and/or I have assisted others in conducting psychological assessments of sex offenders on probation. None of the above. 6 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist is responsible for reviewing, evaluating and ensuring the protocols and procedures related to the evaluation of civilly committed sex offenders within the Commitment and Treatment Program are administered based on established policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated an internal audit team for psychology; and/or I have conducted a review of operations to determine compliance with American Correctional Association or Joint Commission Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations guidelines; and/or I have collected materials/reports for an operational review or internal audit. I have drafted guidance memorandums regarding interpretation of rules, policies and procedures for a psychology treatment program; and/or I have developed and implemented perpetual audits to remain policy compliant; and/or I have served as a reviewer in charge on a program review or a comparable external audit. I have researched and interpreted legal issues and Code of Federal Regulations in order to develop programs, policy and procedures; and/or I have reviewed existing policies and recommended changes; and/or I have provided written responses to internal management to interpret different laws, policies, procedures and rule language; and/or I have organized and assisted with the operations of a residential or inpatient sex offender treatment program; and/or I have provided direction and assistance to a variety of programs within an institution/clinical residential facility; and/or I have conducted research on forensic issues; and/or I have provided input into the evaluation of counselors or other non-psychology staff who are involved in para-professional counseling activities. None of the above. 7 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist is responsible for providing expert opinions in court testimony on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He/she provides forensic consultation and advice to the Commitment and Treatment Program staff, administration, and other disciplines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have testified in an adult criminal justice setting regarding competency to stand trial and responsibility at the time of the offense; and/or I have used psycho-diagnostic assessment techniques to evaluate defendants for mental illness as it relates to court proceedings and judgements; and/or I have consulted with others (i.e., treatment staff, attorneys and/or administrators) regarding forensic findings. I have communicated with and/or developed a professional relationship with outside associations, agencies and universities; and/or I have conveyed the results of psychological assessments to the members of a multi-disciplinary treatment team (i.e., the Parole Commission and the federal courts); and/or I have, in an adult criminal justice setting, testified as an expert regarding forensic evaluations addressing competency to stand trial, responsibility at the time of the offense (insanity pleas), civil commitment evaluations of sexually dangerous persons and/or dangerousness by reason of mental illness. I have provided treatment updates to courts and criminal justice personnel; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have actively participated in a post-doctoral workshop on adult forensic psychological practice issues; and/or I have provided post-doctoral supervision in handling court ordered evaluations and treatment. I have taught courses at the college/university level or provided training in the area of forensic psychology, expert witness and/or jury selection; and/or I have taught a work group tasked with developing forensic practice guidelines; and/or I have advised both the unit and institution disciplinary committees when mental health treatment issues affect the adjustment of inmates/clients behavior. None of the above. 8 The Commitment and Treatment Forensic Psychologist writes technical materials on civilly committed sex offender assessment, treatment, policy, and or training materials. He/she possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively convey technical information about civilly committed sex offenders to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided written annual updates to the courts and attorneys regarding individuals committed as sexually dangerous persons; and/or I have presented findings in court as an expert witness; and/or I have developed an activation of a quality assurance plan; and/or I have offered written guidance from an institutional perspective; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to correctional staff/management; and/or I have authored an article which was published in a nationally recognized mental health or legal publication. I have prepared a technical report/training document related to a clinical/treatment program; and/or I have revised internal policy such as an Institution Supplement or Operations memoranda related to the clinical mission; and/or I have written memorandums to staff to advise them of new policies or procedures related to committed inmates treatment; and/or I have composed Congressional responses in response to civilly committed sex offenders inquiries. I have provided, sworn out of court testimony, to assist others in gathering information during the discovery process; and/or I have contributed to strategic plans; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying decisions made by the psychology department; and/or I have developed standardized operating procedures/manual/procedural guides, in laymen’s terms. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).