Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have&nbsp;a master&rsquo;s degree or doctoral degree in Industrial Organizational Psychology from an accredited program.&nbsp; Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts demonstrating the completion of the education requirements in the Selective Placement Factor. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. Failure to submit any of these required documents may result in loss of consideration for this position. Additionally, if selected, applicant's must also provide an official transcript documenting completion of the education requirements to the institution's Human Resource Office prior to entry on duty. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Industrial Organizational Psychologist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she ensures communication is accurate and effective, all while building trust with others within high-stress environments.&nbsp; He/she demonstrates communication skills when facilitating agency training, mediating and consulting across roles, and while conducting interviews and debriefs.&nbsp; The Industrial Organizational Psychologist consults with counterparts within the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and with other law enforcement agencies to exchange best practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the development of communications focused on employee retention, morale, professionalism, mental health, engagement, or productivity in corrections; and/or I have assisted in gathering evidence-based content for agency/organization management on issues related to employee wellness for presentations at trainings; and/or I have participated in presenting trainings with others on psychology programs directly related to employee wellness; and/or I have orally provided various information to agency/organization employees on issues related to employee wellness. I have communicated agency/organization information on a topic within Industrial Organizational Psychology; and/or I have communicated with agency/organization management on psychological research in order to address workforce issues; and/or I have participated with others in employee programming training focused on employee performance; and/or I have provided routine training to others within a single department. I have developed and provided a formal training on a topic related to employee wellness in corrections at a national training event; and/or I have developed and provided oral briefings to upper agency/organization management on sensitive issues directly related to employee wellness in corrections; and/or I have developed and provided oral presentations on psychology programs in corrections directly related to employee wellness (i.e., stress, burnout, engagement, productivity) inside and outside the agency/organization and responded to questions; and/or I have presented a research paper on employee wellness issues in corrections at a professional conference. None of the above. 5 The Industrial Organizational Psychologist produces written reports/information when translating data, designing training and wellness materials and when documenting sensitive interactions. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include counterparts in other law enforcement agencies and the military, researchers at various universities, and other experts in the field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted a formal paper for supervisor’s review for presentation to agency/organization leadership with a methodology and statistical analysis; and/or I have drafted a formal paper for supervisor’s review with insights, summaries, and real-world applications; and/or I have provided supervisor written analysis and recommendations on internal issues; and/or I have drafted program evaluations; and/or I have drafted formal communications for supervisor’s review on educating employees on various services available to aid in employee wellness. I have published a research paper in a national Industrial Organizational Psychology journal with detailed methodology, statistical analysis, and theoretical framing on a topic related to employee wellness in corrections; and/or I have published a paper in a national Industrial Organizational Psychology journal with actionable insights, summaries, and real-world applications focused on employee wellness in corrections; and/or I have provided agency/organization leadership written analysis and recommendations on agency/organization issues related to employee wellness in corrections. I have written a formal paper for agency/organization leadership with a methodology and statistical analysis focused on a single employee wellness topic (i.e. stress, burnout, engagement, productivity); and/or I have as a group, assisted in writing a section of a formal paper for agency/organization leadership with actional insights, summaries, and real-world applications focused on employee wellness. I have provided agency/organization leadership with formal written assessments, program evaluations, or employee survey results on issues related to employee wellness in corrections; and/or I have written a formal proposal for agency/organization leadership on implementing wellness programming or leadership development in corrections; and/or I have written formal communications educating individuals inside and outside of the agency/organization on employee wellness trends in corrections. I have provided agency/organization leadership with formal written assessments, program evaluations, or employee survey results related to employee wellness; and/or I have written formal proposals for agency/organization leadership on implementing wellness programming or leadership development; and/or I have written formal communications educating individuals inside the agency/organization on employee wellness trends. None of the above. 6 The Industrial Organizational Psychologist works directly with others from Central Office, Regional Offices, and institutions on orchestrating resources with precision and purpose by blending strategic oversight with human-centered design, ensuring that wellness initiatives are sustainable and impactful. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed evidence-based wellness programs for correctional employees that addressed stress, burnout, work-life balance, and mental health; and/or I have aligned wellness initiatives with correctional agency/organization culture and employee needs; and/or I have developed and facilitated workshops for correctional employees on stress management, resilience, mindfulness, and health work habits; and/or I have developed and facilitated training for correctional agency/organization leadership to recognize signs of distress and foster supportive relationships. I have participated in evidence-based wellness programs which resulted in the implementation of new employee wellness resources for agency/organization employees; and/or I have assisted with wellness initiatives to address agency/organization culture and employee needs; and/or I have assisted others in facilitating wellness workshops/trainings for employees; and/or I have reviewed agency/organization policies and provided recommendations that would help support employee wellness. I have advised agency/organization leadership on policies that support correctional employee wellness; and/or I have promoted a culture of wellbeing by engaging correctional agency/organization leadership in wellness initiatives and modeling healthy behaviors; and/or I have leveraged digital tools and artificial intelligence (AI) driven health analytics to enhance access and personalization for correctional employees. I have assisted others in developing engagement strategies that enhanced workplace culture; and/or I have assisted others in developing evidence-based wellness programs for agency/organization employees; and/or I have aligned wellness initiatives with employee needs; and/or I have assisted others in developing and facilitating wellness workshops for agency/organization employees; and/or I have tracked engagement metrics, survey results, and feedback to optimize resources; and/or I have advised agency/organization leadership on policies that support employee wellness. None of the above. 7 The Industrial Organizational Psychologist develops and implements surveys, interviews, and performance metrics in order to identify burnout, trauma exposure, and morale trends. &nbsp; He/she organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements to achieve short and long-term goals and strategies, which includes continuous improvement by measuring program impact. The Industrial Organizational Psychologist conducts evaluations on aspects of employee work-life and the efficacy of employee wellness practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used surveys, interviews, or other performance metrics to assess employee well-being and wellness program effectiveness; and/or I have monitored employee participation rates, health outcomes, or productivity changes to refine wellness strategies; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and suggested funding requests to meet future needs to keep employee engagement initiatives sustainable; and/or I have examined data on the impact of training programs within an agency/organization; and/or I have prioritized employee wellness initiatives based on identified employee needs. I have used surveys, interviews, and other performance metrics to assess correctional employee well-being and wellness program effectiveness; and/or I have monitored correctional employee participation rates, health outcomes, and productivity changes to refine wellness strategies; and/or I have examined performance data to connect correctional employee wellness to productivity and agency/organization success. I have examined data on the impact of training programs, policy changes, and leadership coaching within a correctional agency/organization; and/or I have prioritized correctional employee wellness initiatives based on identified employee needs and organization impact; and/or I have determined budgeting, staffing, and technology tools needed to support employee wellness within a correctional agency/organization; and/or I have examined data in order to understand how correctional work demands affect personal well-being and performance. I have assisted others in the use of surveys, interviews, or other performance metrics to identify strengths and weaknesses within a department; and/or I have assisted in examining employee participation rates to refine wellness strategies; and/or I have participated in performance data reviews as it relates to employee wellness; and/or I have planned an employee engagement initiative aimed to improve team building; and/or I have assisted in determining impact of training programs, policy changes, and leadership coaching within an agency/organization; and/or I have helped determine budgeting needed to support employee wellness within an agency/organization. None of the above. 8 The Industrial Organizational Psychologist understands the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (FBOP) mission and functions and how social, political and technological systems work. &nbsp; He/she possesses knowledge of organizational programs, policies, procedures, rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed wellness programs that supported a correctional agency/organization long-term goals; and/or I have tailored job analysis, competency models, and training to the actual functions and responsibilities of correctional employees; and/or I have developed initiatives that reflect correctional agency/organization values (i.e., public service, innovations); and/or I have ensured all psychological practices within a correctional agency/organization aligned with applicable laws, rules, and ethical standards. I have assisted in the development of wellness programs that supported the agency/organization goals; and/or I have assisted in facilitating training for employees on the values and mission of the agency/organization; and/or I have assisted in the development of initiatives that were aligned with the mission, policies, and strategic goals of the agency/organization; and/or I have assisted in the development of surveys to reveal how aligned employees feel with the agency/organization. I have developed workshops, seminars, trainings, or onboarding programs to ensure employees understood the organization’s mission and structure; and/or I have developed strategies through surveys or focus groups that allowed organization leadership to gain insights from employees while reinforcing a culture of transparency; and/or I have organized national initiatives that built relationships across divisions and strengthened awareness of the organization’s internal ecosystem. I have developed wellness initiatives that were aligned with the mission, policies, and strategic goals of correctional agency/organization; and/or I have conducted one-on-one interviews, focus groups, or exit interviews with correctional employees to obtain responses about sensitive topics; and/or I have implemented surveys to reveal how aligned correctional employees feel with the agency/organization values and whether the workplace correctional culture supports well-being. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).