Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: (1) Establishing safety and occupational health program goals and objectives to ensure safe and healthful working environment; (2) Developing or implementing programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses; (3) Serving in a supervisory capacity with responsibility for planning and assigning work to subordinate employees, monitoring and evaluating their performance, and counseling or disciplining employees regarding performance, conduct, or failure to perform satisfactorily; (4)&nbsp;Developing and recommending safety and occupational health policy to higher levels of management; and (5)&nbsp;Auditing processes, products, or systems for compliance with established safety and occupational programs/policies. 3 Have you served in a supervisory capacity with responsibility for planning and assigning work to subordinate employees, monitoring and evaluating their performance, and counseling or disciplining employees regarding performance, conduct, or failure to perform satisfactorily?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards, ensured a mutual understanding of the standards, and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Managed the organizational unit’s budget and workload. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development programs to facilitate change and communication. Provided leadership to ensure support for equal employment opportunity (EEO) goals and requirements. None of the above. 5 Choose the administrative tasks that you have performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Established performance plans for, or in collaboration with, subordinates. Conducted formal performance appraisals and completed documentation for subordinate staff. Evaluated work performance of subordinates. Counseled employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Handled workplace disputes promptly and effectively. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Implemented formal disciplinary actions. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your project management experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a team member, contributing to the team's activities and efforts in carrying out a work project. In support of the team's activities and efforts, I have been assigned responsibility for the accomplishment of components of projects. I have assisted in the management of projects by performing key tasks such as developing project plans, scheduling milestones, developing requirements, estimating costs and budgets, and monitoring and drafting progress reports. I have been a project manager with responsibility to formulate, execute and complete projects. I have led and directed project team members, obtained necessary project approvals and authorizations, and reported progress and results attained upon completion. I have been a project manager for one or more complex projects. I have been responsible for initiating projects, establishing priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects, making resource decisions for competing projects, including negotiating budgets, controlling costs, securing required human and technology resources, planning and executing the work plan and directing assigned team members in producing quality deliverables, results and outcomes, and closing out the project. None of the above 7 Do you have experience in the planning, management, monitoring, and administration of safety and health compliance projects for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Managed Quality Assurance on a project Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 9 Which types of sites have you performed occupational health and safety inspections? Answer to this question is required Construction sites in occupied buildings New construction sites Industrial operations None of the above 10 Which laws, regulations, codes, or standards have you interpreted and applied at work? Answer to this question is required Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1910 Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1926 State and local regulations related to safety and occupational health None of the above 11 Please indicate the tasks that describe situations you have encountered in either your current position or past employment. Answer to this question is required I have led highly complex safety and health team to perform investigations or resolve safety concerns. I have maintained safety and health contacts, actively engaged the cooperation of internal and external stakeholders in working on common tasks or group projects; and shared work and decision-making with others. I have stressed innovation and risk-taking, analyzed problems, developed alternative solutions and new approaches. I have anticipated and met the needs of clients and customers, set standards for customer needs and satisfaction. I have implemented special projects by analyzing the problem, developing alternative solutions, emphasizing new approaches, and carrying out these special projects in a timely manner. None of the above. 12 Which actions have you performed during a safety and health workplace inspection? Answer to this question is required Observing visible safety hazards/issues. Identifying proper work processes that are in compliance with safety programs. Determining if personnel are using tools/equipment in compliance with safety programs Identifying safety compliant practices that are being followed None of the above 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience recommending or implementing corrective measures for eliminating or controlling safety and health hazards? Answer to this question is required I recommended and assisted implementation with a variety of corrective measures, including removal or substitution materials or equipment, modifications to equipment/work processes to minimize hazards, and use of personal protective equipment. I have experience implementing corrective measures recommended by others. I have completed training or education on this topic but do not have relevant on the job experience. I do not have training, education, or experience recommending or implementing corrective measures. 14 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 15 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 16 Which of the following describes your experience communicating information in written format? Answer to this question is required I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have developed written safety and health policies or Standard Operating Procedures. I have written official directives, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings and recommendations. I have written health and safety plans for construction/industrial worksites. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 17 Select all responses to the following statements that apply to your experience communicating with others orally. Answer to this question is required Conducting and/or facilitating working group discussions. Conducting and/or facilitating formal meetings. Interviewing people to elicit facts or obtain information. Consulting or advising on occupational safety and health issues. Communicating results of evaluations or reviews. Presenting complex, technical information to persons unfamiliar with the subject. Providing safety and health training requiring oral presentation. Providing instructions, training, and advice to other professional employees. None of the above 18 Select the responses that describe your experience interacting with persons of varied backgrounds, cultures, or opinions to accomplish work goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have accomplished goals working with bargaining unit/trades employees. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues or clients who held different views from my own on important subjects or issues. I have accomplished goals working with persons who held a hostile or antagonistic attitude toward me. None of the above. 19 Please describe your experience dealing with difficult (poor performing and/or poor attitude) subordinates or employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 21 How have you exhibited confidence and professional diplomacy while effectively relating to people at all levels both internally and externally? Answer to this question is required Demonstrating an understanding of the interrelationships, roles and responsibilities of your organization. Developing and maintaining professional relationships. Using knowledge of the organizational culture in making decisions and perceiving the impact and implications of such decisions. Identifying when issues need to be escalated to higher authorities and effectively alerting appropriate officials. Demonstrating sensitivity to surroundings and acting accordingly in conversations. Perceiving organizational and political sensitivities and acting accordingly. Understanding the political environment, management priorities, staff roles and responsibilities, and grasps external factors impacting the organization. Ensuring positive outcomes and mission achievement. Understanding corporate priorities, cultural norms and unwritten rules for success. None of the above. 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 22.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.