Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to develop and manage library collections.** Demonstrated ability to develop and manage collections, including vault, special book and archival collections, in a professional library setting. Collections development and management tasks included: 1) providing guidance for both internal and external use of collection materials; 2) sorting and referring printed and archival materials for transfer to appropriate storage destinations; 3) surveying internal collections, identifying and inventorying groups of materials; 4) assessing collections and archival acquisitions to determine preservation and maintenance needs; 5) ensuring compliance with preservation standards and specifications for materials; and 6) identifying equipment and supply needs for administering preservation program and developing specifications for their procurement. Answer to this question is required Independently developed and managed collections in a professional library setting. In doing so, conducted ALL the above tasks. Independently developed and managed collections in a professional library setting. In doing so, conducted FIVE (5) of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, developed and managed collections in a professional library setting. In doing so, conducted THREE (3) OR FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to analyze and organize information and materials in a library setting.** Demonstrated experience in presiding over the analysis and organization of materials and resources in a library setting. Tasks included: 1) accessioning incoming collection items to be cataloged, including gifts, transfers, and purchases; 2) resolving problems and inconsistencies in the cataloging and accessioning process; 3) identifying and recommending enhancements and improvements to existing databases; 4) leveraging Machine Readable Cataloguing (MARC) format as well as other current and emerging technologies to create preliminary bibliographic records for un-cataloged material; 5) developing and sharing new information sources; 6) performing detailed analyses and evaluations of requests; and 7) preparing reports, analyses, and other documents related to information and research efforts. Answer to this question is required Independently presided over the analysis and organization of materials and resources in a library setting. Experience includes ALL the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, presided over the analysis and organization of materials and resources in a library setting. Experience includes FIVE (5) OR SIX (6) of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, presided over the analysis and organization of materials and resources in a library setting. Experience includes FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to exchange information and interact collaboratively with persons inside and outside of an organization, including decision-makers and their staff, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or customers. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as the principal liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as a liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside and/or outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through participation in library groups, conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and/or workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside an organization. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide research services. Researches and provides in-depth information on items or collections to staff and patrons and providing expert advice on items and collections' use and conservation, preservation priorities, and treatments. In doing so, performs the following activities: 1) provides regular outreach and serves as a consultant, 2) provides desk coverage and answers reference questions, 3) performs information searches, conducts research and analysis, 4) collaborates with others to identify, retrieve, retrieve and produce materials in a timely manner, 5) analyze requests and suggest search strategies, 6) makes presentations, and 7) prepares reports. Answer to this question is required Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and conservation, preservation priorities, and treatments and performed SIX (6) OR SEVEN (7) the above activities. Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and conservation, preservation priorities, and treatments and performed FOUR (4) OR FIVE (5) of the above activities. Provided expert advice on items and collections' use and conservation, preservation priorities, and treatments and performed THREE (3) of the above activities. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).