Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied your knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes None of the above 4 Which of the following activities do you have experience performing? Answer to this question is required Acting as a peer reviewer Data analysis Statistical or error analysis Designing a data collection method or procedure Quality control Reviewing and evaluating scientific research and/or results None of the above 5 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required I can articulate the important points of the material and draw conclusions. I can review various source material and identify inconsistencies. I can identify the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. I can use statistical packages such as SAS and SPSS. I can use quantitative methods. I can use qualitative methods. I can identify relationships between points, issues, or events. I can infer possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 6 Please select the type of data which you have experience in analyzing including data forecasting and trend analysis. Answer to this question is required Project information statistics Financial and fiscal statistics Metrics, measurements and indicators of a commercial sector, industry, region or organization Other None of the above 7 Which of the following analysis tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Development and/or analysis of surveys Performance measures Cost analysis / rate analysis Market research Technical review Logistics trend analysis Business process analysis Inventory analysis Data analysis and validation None of the above 8 From the following list, please indicate the advanced data analytics methodologies and/or tools in which you have applied experience in a workplace setting. Answer to this question is required Multiple Regression and Correlation Analysis Analysis of Variance Non-Parametric Testing Applied Survey Sampling Randomized Control Trials Agent Based Modeling Game Theory Social Network Analysis Spatial Modeling Geographic Information Projections Multilayer Analysis STATA SPSS R Python Gephi or similar tool ArcGIS Pro or Enterprise SQL Tableau NetLogo or similar tool None of the above 9 Which of the following BEST describes your experience implementing an enterprise data strategy that includes data governance, data quality, planning and performance? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 10 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have produced a technical or policy report that relayed the implications of findings to a larger context I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue I have produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results I have collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue None of the above 11 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical / quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Desktop publishing None of the above 12 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.