Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of IT asset management (ITAM) practices.** Demonstrated EXPERT knowledge of IT asset management (ITAM) principles, methods, tools and standards to ensure that an organization is able to effectively manage its IT assets. This includes knowledge of the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) ITAM practices, hardware asset management (HAM) and software asset management (SAM). Answer to this question is required Demonstrated EXPERT knowledge of management (ITAM) principles, methods, tools and standards in ALL the following areas: ITIL, maximizing value and controlling costs, managing risk, managing hardware assets, managing software entitlements, supporting asset planning, and automated ITAM tools in a leadership role in organizations of over 5,000 people. Demonstrated EXPERT knowledge of management (ITAM) principles, methods, tools and standards in ALL the following areas: ITIL, maximizing value and controlling costs, managing risk, managing hardware assets, managing software entitlements, supporting asset planning, and automated ITAM tools in organizations of over 1,000 people. Demonstrated EXPERT knowledge of management (ITAM) principles, methods, tools and standards in ALL the following areas: ITIL, maximizing value and controlling costs, managing risk, managing hardware assets, managing software entitlements, supporting asset planning, and automated ITAM tools in organizations of over 500 people. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to operate and enhance automated IT asset management tools.** Demonstrated the ability to EXPERTLY operate and enhance automated IT asset management tools to support an IT asset management program. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an ORGANIZATIONAL EXPERT in operating and enhancing automated IT asset management tools, including ALL the following: managing asset records throughout their entire lifecycle, managing software entitlements, importing asset data, developing automated workflows, resolving data discrepancies while acting in a leadership role in organizations of over 5,000 people. Demonstrated the ability to EXPERTLY operate and enhance automated IT asset management tools, including ALL the following: managing asset records throughout their entire lifecycle, managing software entitlements, importing asset data, developing automated workflows, resolving data discrepancies in organizations of over 1,000 people. Demonstrated the ability to EXPERTLY operate and enhance automated IT asset management tools, including ALL the following: managing asset records throughout their entire lifecycle, managing software entitlements, importing asset data, developing automated workflows, resolving data discrepancies in organizations of over 500 people. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to identify and analyze metrics. Demonstrated the ability to identify and develop cost-effective metrics to support effective IT asset tracking and planning. Answer to this question is required EXTENSIVE experience identifying and developing cost-effective metrics to support effective IT asset tracking and planning at the ORGANIZATIONAL level. SIGNIFICANT experience identifying and developing cost-effective metrics to support effective IT asset tracking and planning at the ORGANIZATIONAL level. SOME experience identifying and developing cost-effective metrics to support effective IT asset tracking and planning at the BUSINESS UNIT level. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to create guidelines and requirements. Demonstrated the ability to analyze and elicit statutory, organizational and operational requirements to develop high quality guidance to operate and maintain an IT asset management program. Answer to this question is required EXTENSIVE experience analyzing and eliciting ALL the following types of requirements at the ORGANIZATIONAL level: statutory, organizational, operational. EXTENSIVE experience creating the following at the ORGANIZATIONAL level: standard operating procedures, system user guides, and policy to ensure high quality output. SIGNIFICANT experience analyzing and eliciting ALL the following types of requirements at the ORGANIZATIONAL level: statutory, organizational, operational. SIGNIFICANT experience creating ANY of the following at the ORGANIZATIONAL level: standard operating procedures, system user guides, and policy to ensure high quality output. SOME experience analyzing and eliciting ANY of the following types of requirements at the BUSINESS UNIT level: statutory, organizational, operational. SIGNIFICANT experience creating ANY of the following at the BUSINESS UNIT level: standard operating procedures, system user guides, and policy to ensure high quality output. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).