Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have performed the following responsibilities, which are related to effective leadership : Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 2 From the following list of information security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed. Answer to this question is required Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Technical Surveillance Countermeasures None of the above 3 Please select from the following choices your highest level of experience reading and interpreting architectural plans and specifications. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 4 Which of the following have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and managed projects through completion Established and monitored project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitored performance Anticipated and resolved problems None of the above 5 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no work experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 6 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 7 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 8 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of applicable statutes and authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or knowledge of applicable statutes or authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted comprehensive and complex security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the handling, control, storage and safeguarding of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the construction of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF). I have processed, investigated and adjudicated security infractions and violations, including mishandling of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have developed methodology and procedures for establishing, operating and assessing the effectiveness of a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Security Program in accordance with Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations. 10 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues. Answer to this question is required Risk Management Personnel Suitability Compartmentalization Defense in depth Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance Counter-Terrorism Counter-Intelligence Information Assurance International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) Construction Security Technical Security Physical Security Force Protection Countermeasures Information Technologies None of the above 11 From the following list, please identify those regulations with which you have worked. Answer to this question is required Executive Order 12333 Executive Order 12829 Executive Order 12958 Executive Order 12968 Executive Order 13526 Executive Order 13587 Director of Central Intelligence Directives (DCID) Intelligence Community Directives 503 Intelligence Community Directives 704 Intelligence Community Directives 705 Intelligence Community Policy Guidance (ICPG) Intelligence Community Policy Memoranda (ICPM) Intelligence Community Standards (ICS) Interagency Security Committee (ISC) Policies, Standards, and Best Practices Telephone Security Group Standards Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH), Overseas Security Policy Board Standards None of the above 12 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 13 Select the response(s) that describe your oral communication experience: Answer to this question is required I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to instruct. I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to persuade or negotiate. I have represented management in meetings or conferences. I have conducted informal technical training for others. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above 15 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.