Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of Department of State operations and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of the Department of State?s operations and objectives, but not through direct work experience. I have been exposed to the Department of State?s operations or objectives through my work experience as a contractor. I have been exposed to the Department of State?s operations or objectives through my participation on an interagency group. I have been exposed to the Department of State?s operations or objectives through my work experience in a Government agency other than Department of State. I have been exposed to the Department of State?s operations or objectives through my work experience as a Department of State employee. None of the above. 4 Select the type of qualifications you have that indicates your ability to be productive and work independently. Answer to this question is required Worked independently in establishing priorities. Managed time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handled heavy workload while working within tight deadline pressures. Ensured tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapted behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organized work, determine resource requirements, and evaluate progress. Ensured program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above 5 Please select any of the following in which you have experience in organizing and drafting. Answer to this question is required Executive correspondence Press releases Strategy documents Situation reports Proposals Fact sheets Other presentation materials None of the above 6 I have made formal or informal presentations in the following settings: Answer to this question is required Before decision-making officials and/or groups To advisory groups In international meetings At public meetings During focus groups At professional meetings or conferences During workshops At training or orientation sessions At staff meetings None of the above 7 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 8 Which of the following problem solving techniques have you applied as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Brainstorming with a group to arrive at solutions Trial and error testing Eliminating the cause of the problem Using a solution that solved a similar problem Approaching solutions indirectly and creatively None of the above 9 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines. I manage multiple tasks/assignments with a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. As a team/project leader, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with my supervisor, as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above 10 Select one response that most closely represents your experience managing day-to-day office functions. Answer to this question is required I handle routine actions in any given day. This is typically characterized by: screening and referring calls and visitors to appropriate subject matter personnel; locating and assembling information as requested; ordering office supplies; preparing routine correspondence; reviewing and routing incoming material based on specific instructions. I handle a range of activities in my assigned organization. This is characterized by: identifying, assigning and coordinating tasks throughout the office; maintaining controls of incoming work and following up to ensure timely action; adjusting priorities to meet emergencies; making complete arrangements for conferences and meetings; and updating filing systems. I independently coordinate and direct day-to-day activities of the office: To include identifying and assigning tasks to personnel; recommending/implementing policies, priorities, practices and procedures; developing and designing control systems for correspondence; scheduling meetings and conferences and ensuring all participants are provided with the necessary background information; and coordinating and organizing work with others. None of the above 11 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.