Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select one choice that BEST describes your level of experience applying knowledge of a broad range of foreign affairs policies, priorities, and/or initiatives in order to provide advisory services: Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 6 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience 7 Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues: Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have dealt with issues where no agreement could be reached and ensured problem resolution through other administrative actions. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and resolving problems. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, diffusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solution on controversial issues. 8 From the following list, please identify the critical skills that you possess: Answer to this question is required Advanced topical expertise in counterrorism. Advanced topical expertise in Islamic Studies. Advanced topical expertise in physical sciences (e.g., chemistry, biology, microbiology). Advanced topical expertise in engineering (e.g., aerospace, biomedical, chemical, electrical, nuclear). Advanced topical expertise in computer engineering or computer science. Advanced topical expertise in financial security, international banking, international migration, religious conflicts, and/or international organization. Advanced topical expertise in analytical studies with special emphasis in denial and deception; in strategic and predictive analysis, forecasting and modeling; and/or crime mapping and analysis. Advanced area expertise in Central Asia including reading, speaking, and comprehension in Central Asian and/or Caucasian language(s). Advanced area expertise in the Middle East including reading, speaking, and comprehension in Arabic, Farsi, Persian, Urdu, Pashtun and/or Dari language(s). Advanced area expertise in Korea including reading, speaking, and comprehension in the Korean language. Advance area expertise in China including reading, speaking, and comprehension in Chinese, Mandarin, and/or Taiwan language(s). Advanced subject matter expertise in counternarcotics. Advanced subject matter expertise in Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). Advanced area expertise in International Banking. None of the above. 9 From the following list, please identify the types of written products you have authored or reviewed and provided final edits: Answer to this question is required Conflict or stabilization analyses Strategic framework or policies Policy memorandums Talking points and briefing papers Speeches Training materials Strategic planning or facilitation guides Program design, monitoring and evaluation Program scopes of work None of the above 10 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines. I manage multiple tasks/assignments with a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. As a team/project leader, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with my supervisor, as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.