Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [73313] In response to question number 30210, in approximately 500 words or less, please answer the following. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience in development, preparation and execution of budgets, including monitoring funding limitations and recommending adjustments based on shifting program needs AND conducting reasoned analysis of financial issues and modifying existing procedures to resolve current operational problems AND acting as a liaison to program offices to provide guidance on budget understanding and fund utilization. This experience is well described in my application. 2.1 [73306] Budgeting often requires investigating data that doesn&rsquo;t &lsquo;speak&rsquo; to each other. In 500 words or less, please describe a time you had to investigate a coding error or discrepancy within the General Ledger. How did you coordinate with the accounting office to ensure the official records, and your execution logs were synchronized, and what checklist did you develop to catch this earlier in the next cycle? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73307]. During a mid-year review, it is critical to distinguish between temporary execution lags (e.g., slow contract awards) and a genuine structural operational deficit. In 500 words or less, walk us through a time you analyzed a program&rsquo;s burn rate and determined that, despite slow initial spending, projected commitments would exceed the Total Obligational Authority (TOA) by fiscal year-end. What specific data points did you use to justify your &lsquo;get-well&rsquo; plan to leadership? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73308] In 500 words or less, please describe a routine financial report or data pull that you found to be manual or error prone. What specific steps did you take to &lsquo;scrub&rsquo; the process for efficiencies, and how did this change improve the accuracy of the information provided to your stakeholders? Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. 2.1 [73315] In approximately 500 words or less, how has your education help you prepare for analyzing budgeting at the GS-11 level. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position 2.1 [73306] Budgeting often requires investigating data that doesn&rsquo;t &lsquo;speak&rsquo; to each other. In 500 words or less, please describe a time you had to investigate a coding error or discrepancy within the General Ledger. How did you coordinate with the accounting office to ensure the official records, and your execution logs were synchronized, and what checklist did you develop to catch this earlier in the next cycle? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73307]. During a mid-year review, it is critical to distinguish between temporary execution lags (e.g., slow contract awards) and a genuine structural operational deficit. In 500 words or less, walk us through a time you analyzed a program&rsquo;s burn rate and determined that, despite slow initial spending, projected commitments would exceed the Total Obligational Authority (TOA) by fiscal year-end. What specific data points did you use to justify your &lsquo;get-well&rsquo; plan to leadership? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73308] In 500 words or less, please describe a routine financial report or data pull that you found to be manual or error prone. What specific steps did you take to &lsquo;scrub&rsquo; the process for efficiencies, and how did this change improve the accuracy of the information provided to your stakeholders? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.4 [73315] In approximately 500 words or less, how has your education help you prepare for analyzing budgeting at the GS-11 level. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [73319] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience independently developing, formulating, and executing complex organizational budgets and long-term financial plans AND designing, developing, and preparing automated budget tracking systems for use by program offices and management. Serves as a budget resource to ensure financial plans align with operational goals and mission requirements AND providing in-depth financial analysis, trend studies (such as year-over-year and month-over-month analysis), variance analysis, and obligations reporting to Senior Management on a regular basis? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 [73322] Federal budgeting requires pulling data from various systems. In approximately 500 words or less, please tell us about a time you discovered a significant discrepancy between your execution data and the official accounting records. How did you reconcile the data, and what internal controls did you implement to prevent it from happening again? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73323] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your process for performing a mid-year budget review. If you discovered a significant variance between projected obligations and actual execution, how would you determine if it was a timing issue versus a structural deficit, and how would you brief leadership on the path forward? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73324] Budgeting often involves saying &rsquo;no&rsquo; to program managers with high-priority missions. In approximately 500 words or less, please describe a situation where you had to deny a funding request or implement a significant budget cut. How did you communicate this to the stakeholders, and how did you manage the resulting pushback? Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 12 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).