Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to physically transport, assemble, and inventory professional audio equipment per event.** Ability to transport, assemble, and conduct inventory of professional audio equipment. This includes conducting the following tasks related to audio production: 1) positioning portable in-house professional audio equipment between storage locations and in-house venues, 2) assembling and cabling professional audio equipment including line arrays, subwoofers, fills, and wireless systems, 3) disassembling professional audio equipment including line arrays, subwoofers, fills, and wireless systems, and 4) conducting inventory and tracking of professional audio equipment used for productions. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed ALL of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed AT LEAST ONE (1) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to operate professional audio equipment.** Ability to conduct the following tasks related to audio production: 1) configuration and calibration of PA systems, including line arrays, subwoofers, fills, and wireless systems, 2) configuration and calibration of a digital audio console, 3) audio amplification for lectures, conversations, or symposia style events with a live audience, 4) audio amplification for concerts or other performances with a live audience, 5) broadcast video crews to supply audio signals to cameras, 6) audio mixing in a studio environment, 7) edited audio content using software for the purpose of broader distribution and archiving, and 8) conducted research on new hardware and emerging technology or workflows in the audio industry. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed ALL of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and performed at least THREE of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and performed at least TWO of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to identify issues and coordinate equipment maintenance. Ability to identifying issues and performing routine maintenance on equipment to ensure continual operation, including the following: 1) monitoring equipment operation and identifying equipment failure, 2) documenting inventory of equipment in need of repair, 3) identifying and correcting equipment failures and accommodating changes for on-location production needs in emergency situations, 4) recommending new or different equipment to replace outdated or damaged equipment, 5) recommending new or different equipment to accommodate new workflows or technology, and 6) performing routine firmware updates on devices. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed ALL of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. In a professional environment, worked with audio equipment and independently performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others related to the planning and execution of live events. Ability to communicatie and interact with a variety of diverse individuals, including clients, vendors, talent, VIPs, or colleagues to discuss logistics and production requirements for a live event. Answer to this question is required Described experience interacting with ALL types of individuals listed above Described experience interacting with UP TO THREE (3) types of individuals listed above Described experience interacting with UP TO ONE (1) type of individuals listed above None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).