Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose one answer which best describes your basic requirements for Architect positions. Answer to this question is required I have a degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I do NOT meet the basic qualifications requirements. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in producing documents related to building design? Answer to this question is required I am proficient in the production of building design and construction documents for complex building designs including incorporation of multiple disciplines and coordination among the disciplines. I have developed original sketches, CADD drawings, specifications and calculations for portions of large-scale multi-use and/or historically important buildings. I have assisted a senior architect/engineer, developed details, and made modifications to original sketches and CADD drawings created by others such as inserting notes, adding size annotations, etc., for design of buildings. I have developed original sketches and CADD drawings and specifications for building design projects. None of the above. 4 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using in as regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required AutoDESK tools Microstation Tools BIM tools Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, Powerpoint) Photoshop Sketchup I do not have experience with the listed software applications but I am willing to learn. 5 Which of the following specific architectural design tasks do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Preparation of design fee estimates or proposals Project budget development Construction Cost Estimating Resolution of unique phasing requirements, with relation to the renovation of occupied buildings Implementation of historic preservation concepts relating to the renovation of major monumental public buildings and spaces of national significance None of the above 6 Which of the following specific architectural duties; do you have specialized experience in performing? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed existing building construction in order to identify deficiencies I have successfully collaborated with building users to analyze specific spatial or programmatic issues and developed short term as well as long term solutions which were implemented. I have performed analysis of an existing facility against accessible design code requirements and made recommendations for corrective action which were successfully implemented. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)? Answer to this question is required I am a current LEED Accredited Professional (LEED AP), and have actively participated on at least one LEED design project I am a current LEED Green Associate, and have actively participated on at least one LEED design project I do not possess a LEED professional accreditation, but have actively participated on a LEED design project I have a LEED professional accreditation (LEED AP or other), but have not yet participated on a LEED design project I do not possess a LEED professional accreditation and have not participated on a LEED design project 8 Which of the following best describes your experience managing building design contracts and leading building design efforts? Answer to this question is required I have led multi-disciplinary teams including representatives of in-house stakeholder organizations and contracted A&E firms on major building design projects with aggressive schedules, tight budgets, and complex phasing. I have served as lead architect/engineer on multi-disciplinary teams including representatives of in-house stakeholder organizations and contracted A&E firms on major building design projects with aggressive schedules, tight budgets, and complex phasing. I have served as primary liaison/POC for clients and building design professionals to manage services and resolve/mediate problems on less challenging building design projects. I have served as team member on multi-disciplinary design teams for less challenging building design projects. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing statements of work, estimating level of effort of design services, evaluating proposals for design services and participating in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services? Answer to this question is required I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in preparing statements of work and estimates or participated in technical discussions. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussion to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in preparing statements of work and design services estimates and participating in technical discussions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task . 10 Which of the following describe your experience leading meetings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led meetings at the senior management level designed to achieve decisions on significant issues. I have led meetings of my peers and/or contracted professionals. I have given informal briefings such as status reports to process stakeholders and colleagues. I have briefed others (co-workers, superiors, etc.) on work I am performing. None of the above 11 Which of the following best describe your experience representing your office or organization to others within or outside your organization? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have responded to requests for technical building architectural/engineering information from my peers and colleagues. I have been the main liaison and point of contact and communication between my building design team and my clients or stakeholders. I have been responsible for resolving problems, relaying building design project information, and interpreting building design project procedures and requirements within my project team and among stakeholders of the project. I have represented the interests and priorities of my office or organization in communications with outside organizations None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.