Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 4.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist contacts include professional medical and administrative personnel in the institutions, region and Central Offices. These contacts include Regional Directors, Wardens, Associate Wardens and others. He/she will have many and varied contacts with health care professionals in other government agencies and in the public. He/she may also have contact with Congressional staff, institution staff, and correctional staff external to the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and/or other public officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with managers, health care professionals in other government agencies, public or private organizations; and/or I have facilitated, organized or presented training at a national level through conferences, symposium, or virtually for administrative or medical staff on topics regarding healthcare or correctional accreditation processes, health services policy, quality management activities or other areas, as needed; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with counterparts from other agencies, regional administrators, wardens, health services administrators, and managers/representatives from external organizations; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers, wardens or administrators, providing recommendations for corrective action regarding the discrepancies noted. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with managers while involved in a quality management study; and/or I have provided guidance to less experienced staff; and/or I have participated in a department meeting on quality management by providing feedback. I have actively participated as a member of a national task force or work group; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided training or courses to other related health services staff on quality management topics or risk management issues; and/or I have chaired a committee meeting on improving organizational performance. None of the above. 6 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist in the Health Services Division prepares reports, correspondence, and responses on a variety of issues to Health Services Division executive leadership, branch chiefs and/or chief professional officers which may be used as part of reports/responses to Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Executive Staff, Department of Justice (DOJ), healthcare or correctional accrediting bodies, or other federal, state or local government. He/she also prepares correspondence to/from Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), regional, Central Office, field personnel and the general public. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to these targeted audiences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memorandums for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandums or correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefing; and/or I have written/revised and/or evaluated Program Statements/internal policy where changes may result as a consequence of his/her actions; and/or I have independently prepared comprehensive review guidelines for health care related topics for program review/focus reviews; and/or I have prepared technical documentation or correspondence to healthcare or correctional accrediting bodies, or other government agencies on standard compliance issues or provided description of corrective action plans which was utilized without change. I have prepared directions for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared written documentation and written reports focusing on quality management activities of the bureau with external agencies. None of the above. 7 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist, under the guidance of the Chief of Population and Correctional Health, works independently using process and outcome measures to assess the delivery of medical care to federal inmates. He/she may manage the inmate mortality review process; data for health care accrediting process for all Bureau facilities including preparation for survey and after-action plans; and coordination of focus reviews. He/she ensures the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) maintains compliance with all policies, program, regulations and other guidelines. This requires that he/she be familiar with policy and regulations, such as those concerning healthcare and correctional accreditation standards, institutional operations, and security in order to develop and implement policy which impacts institutional operations and procedures.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and facilitated training for healthcare accreditation standards, as appropriate; and/or I have served as healthcare and/or correctional accreditation data coordinator at an institution/facility; and/or I have ensured policy implementation for region or several institutions. I have provided guidance/analysis and/or standards interpretation for correctional accreditation; and/or I have developed strategies to ensure compliance with healthcare accreditation standards; and/or I have led a policy development team; and/or I have established quality improvement plan for a health care organization. I have participated in audits; and/or I have ensured policy implementation plan in place for local institution; and/or I have assisted in implementing specific institution policies in compliance with national healthcare accreditation standards, etc.; and/or I have provided onsite training in new policies/procedures at various institutions. None of the above. 8 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist is a health care professional who carries out the duties of data quality management, accreditation, risk management, and continuing professional medical education for the health services programs throughout the Bureau of Prisons. He/she is personally responsible for duties which include planning, organizing/reviewing work, determining program goals and monitoring/evaluating the progress of clinical and administrative data. He/she is responsible for determining the need for and developing data programs which impact at the local level as well as for the organization as a whole.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified patterns or trends in medical data collection; and/or I have performed comparative analysis and benchmarking; and/or I have recommended and implemented specific strategies for a corrective action plan; and/or I have prepared or conducted national training program on clinical performance issues based on the trends identified; and/or I have conducted training program based on the collection and analysis of medical data. I have drafted findings report; and/or I have utilized healthcare technology such as administrative/patient dashboards, electronic medical records reports, and approved software systems; and/or I have shared findings information with co-workers and regional medical staff. I have participated in Improving Organizational Performance (IOP) Committee; and/or I have collected organizational performance data; and/or I have conducted Improving Organizational Performance (IOP) study. None of the above. 9 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist oversee a program, policy or procedure and must analyze, evaluate, and interpret various diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in order to determine the appropriate method for data collection.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the care of chronic care clinic patients; and/or I have assisted in staff training regarding patient care; and/or I have analyzed and collected data using approved software applications. I have provided analysis or interpretation for diagnostic results or therapeutic procedures to identify any strengths and weaknesses in the care provided; and/or I have reviewed administrative remedy cases and provided an opinion on the data collected; and/or I have assisted in the training of in-house staff pertaining to issues identified in patient care. I have created reports trending healthcare performance metrics (i.e., such as National Performance Measures or quality improvement studies) for the Executive Staff of the institution or the Regional Health Systems Administrator and formulated an opinion on appropriateness of care including the design and implementation of a corrective plan of action; and/or I have evaluated the effectiveness of the health services utilization review process at the local and regional level; and/or I have developed national training pertaining to issues identified. None of the above. 10 The Quality Improvement Program Specialist will assist the Chief of Population and Correctional Health with formulating data for the accreditation process, developing assessment profiles of all health care units, developing data system which measures morbidity, mortality, and other clinical and medical parameters to ensure sound medical practices, community standards and protocols are followed.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided in-house staff training on clinical issues/patient safety through the continuing medical education program; and/or I have provided patient education sessions to groups and updated staff on current clinical advances or research; and/or I have assisted in training and orientation of junior clinical staff; and/or I have led institutional data mortality reviews or root cause analysis/corrective actions. I have reviewed and articulated the administrative/patient dashboards for corrective actions and/or National Performance Measures for correctional healthcare; and/or I have demonstrated the use of administrative/patient dashboards for corrective actions and/or National Performance Measures in the treatment plan of patients; and/or I have applied principles based on patient safety and infectious disease management in the daily professional activities. I have identified undesirable patterns or trends in outcome measures and the application of evidence-based medical practices; and/or I have coordinated/provided training on current clinical issues or safe practices at a national level through conferences, symposium or virtual formats; and/or I have organized and coordinated with other departments the dashboard education activities for staff; and/or I have integrated the application of the administrative/patient dashboards for corrective actions and/or National Performance Measures to improve clinical practice and the analysis of processes and outcome measures; and/or I have formulated outcome goals from clinical practice and interpreted data on the selected indicators to rate efficacy and detect trends in patient care. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).