Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 The Advanced Care Level Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for the mentally ill. In addition, they must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit. Advanced Care Level Psychologists must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically mentally ill clients in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low-functioning mentally ill inmates; and/or I have provided individual therapy and treatment planning for chronically mentally ill patients on an inpatient unit. I have provided clinical services for mentally ill offenders in a residential treatment program; and/or I have conducted skills training on an inpatient unit for chronically mentally ill offenders; and/or I have administered cognitive behavioral skills training for mentally ill inmates in a state correctional facility; and/or I have made treatment recommendations as the psychologist on an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for mentally ill offenders. I have co-facilitated a psycho-educational group for mentally ill clients; and/or I have provided clinical case management services to mentally ill clients; and/or I have completed a practicum placement or internship rotation at a site which focused on the treatment of seriously mentally ill clients. None of the above. 4.2 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which should include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and interactive groups. Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling mentally ill offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided individual or group treatment in an inpatient setting; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to mentally ill offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment using cognitive-behavioral techniques. I have, as a practicum student, offered counseling services to mentally ill clients; and/or I have, as an intern, completed a rotation on an inpatient psychiatric unit which included individual and/or group therapy experience; and/or I have maintained a psychotherapy caseload which included seriously mentally ill clients. I have, as a practicum student, provided individual or group treatment in a correctional setting; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to mentally ill offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment using evidence based strategies. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: GAMA: General Ability Measure for Adults HCR-20: Historical Clinical Risk Management-20 MCMI: Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory MMPI: Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory NEO: NEO Five Factory Inventory PAI: Personality Assessment Inventory PAS: Personality Assessment Screener PCL-R: Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) PCL-SV: Psychopathy Checklist - Screening Version (Hare) PICTS: Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles SCID-I: Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis I SCID-II: Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis II Shipley: Shipley Institute of Living Stanford Binet: Stanford Binet Intelligence Scales SVR-20: Sexual Violence Risk WAIS: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 4.3 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, as a practicum student or intern, I have assisted in administering at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted mental status interviews of new admissions to a mental health facility; and/or I have assisted in the collection of psycho-social history information for mentally ill clients. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis of mentally ill clients. Under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, as a practicum student or intern, I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have made treatment recommendations based on a psychological test report. None of the above. 4.4 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists play an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have served as a member of a response team following a natural disaster following instruction; and/or I have assisted a confrontation avoidance team following instruction; and/or I have functioned in the role of a mediator or co-mediator to resolve a conflict. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center calming down someone who was emotionally distraught and referring them to additional services if needed; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 4.5 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have a knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of mentally ill offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. I have regularly read journal articles related to the treatment of mental illness; and/or I have routinely completed continuing education workshops and seminars related to mental illness; and/or I have thoroughly reviewed the major textbooks in the field of mental illness. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 The Advanced Care Level Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for the mentally ill. In addition, they must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit. Advanced Care Level Psychologists must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical services for mentally ill offenders in a residential treatment program; and/or I have conducted skills training on an inpatient unit for chronically mentally ill offenders; and/or I have administered a cognitive behavioral skills training for mentally ill inmates in a correctional facility; and/or I have made treatment recommendations as the psychologist on an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for mentally ill offenders. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically mentally ill clients in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low-functioning mentally ill inmates; and/or I have provided individual therapy and treatment planning for chronically mentally ill patients on an inpatient unit. I have developed a residential, skills-based treatment program for mentally ill inmates; and/or I have supervised doctoral level providers in an inpatient unit for mentally ill offenders in a state correctional institution; and/or I have developed and delivered a skills-based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients in a forensic psychiatric hospital; and/or I have co-chaired a psychiatric or multi-disciplinary team. None of the above. 4.2 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which should include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and interactive groups. Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling mentally ill offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a residential treatment program for mentally ill offenders in a correctional environment; and/or I have written treatment plans and provided evidence based psychological treatment to mentally ill offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment using one of the following modalities: Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT), Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT), Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy, Illness Management and Recovery, Emotional Self-Regulation, or Seeking Safety. I have provided individual or group treatment in an inpatient setting; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to mentally ill offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment using cognitive-behavioral techniques. I have, as a practicum student, provided individual or group treatment in a correctional setting; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to mentally ill offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment using evidence based strategies. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: GAMA: General Ability Measure for Adults HCR-20: Historical Clinical Risk Management-20 MCMI: Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory MMPI: Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory NEO: NEO Five Factory Inventory PAI: Personality Assessment Inventory PAS: Personality Assessment Screener PCL-R: Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) PCL-SV: Psychopathy Checklist - Screening Version (Hare) PICTS: Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles SCID-I: Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis I SCID-II: Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis II Shipley: Shipley Institute of Living Stanford Binet: Stanford Binet Intelligence Scales SVR-20: Sexual Violence Risk WAIS: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 4.3 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, as a practicum student or intern, I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have made treatment recommendations based on a psychological test report. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have supervised the administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis and made treatment recommendations for mentally ill clients based on these interpretations. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis of mentally ill clients. None of the above. 4.4 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists play an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center calming down someone who was emotionally distraught and referring them to additional services if needed; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 4.5 The Advanced Care Level Psychologists must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of mentally ill offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate; and/or I have prepared written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. I have designed a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).