Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in developing collaborations or partnerships with museums, cultural institutions, educational organizations and communities? Answer to this question is required I have developed complex national collaborations and partnerships with museums and cultural institutions that yielded positive relationships and resources. I have developed complex national collaborations and partnerships with museums and cultural institutions. I have assisted others in developing national collaborations or partnerships with museums and cultural institutions. I have assisted others in developing collaborations or partnerships with museums and cultural institutions. I do not have any experience in developing collaborations or partnerships with museums and cultural institutions. 3 Which of the following describes your experience managing a network of national and international museums and programs? Check all that apply Answer to this question is required I have managed a network of national museums and programs. I have managed a network of international museums and programs. I have managed complex, competing priorities to ensure program success. I have managed, tracked and reported on the activities of a complex organization. I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships with museums and cultural organizations? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships with museums and cultural organizations. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in short-term partnerships with museums and cultural organizations. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in long and sustainable partnerships with museums and cultural organizations. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in long, sustainable partnerships with museums and cultural organizations that yielded funding for programs. I have not been involved in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships with museums and cultural organizations. 5 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience developing outreach programs that include off-site programming, digital, and electronic-based programming? Answer to this question is required I have developed outreach programs that included off-site, and digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have developed outreach programs that included digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have assisted in the development of outreach programs to reach diverse audiences and digital and electronic-based education program and activities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following describes your experience in producing public programs and/or educational events that? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Significantly enhanced the visitor experience. Built internal and external partnerships. Expanded my organization’s reach and impact. Had an impact on the larger cultural community as an example of best practice. Had an impact on the public’s understanding of the American experience. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience representing the organization at local, state, and national events, meetings, and online forums serving different communities to develop trust and rapport with stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have experience representing the organization at local, State, and national events, meetings, and online forums serving different communities to develop trust and rapport with stakeholders. I have supported teams representing the organization at local, state, and national events, meetings, and online forums serving different communities to develop trust and rapport with stakeholders. I do not have related experience. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in applying the principles and techniques of program and budget analysis in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals? Answer to this question is required I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals. I have had education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Indicate the highest level of experience you have leading or supervising teams. Answer to this question is required I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have experience leading teams that require solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of others. I have directly supervised a high-performing team of senior staff and subordinate supervisors. I have had no leadership or supervisory responsibilities 10 From the list of interpersonal communication skills below, select those that you have experience in applying as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Facilitating the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Interacting effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to new staff. Administering consequences, holding others accountable to meet program requirements. Persuading others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques in order to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. None of the above. 11 Which of the following reflects your experience in using knowledge of management processes and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in management analysis to make recommendations regarding the organization of my department and its interactions with other departments as demonstrated by participation in a management team reporting directly to senior leadership. I have experience in management analysis to make recommendations regarding the organization of my department as demonstrated by providing management for my department. I have extensive experience using the principles of planning to set organizational fiscal and programmatic priorities as demonstrated by developing long-range plans impacting my department and other departments. I have extensive experience using the principles of planning to set organizational fiscal and programmatic priorities as demonstrated by developing long-range plans for my department. I have experience using the principles of planning to set organizational fiscal priorities by developing as demonstrated by developing plans for my department. I have extensive experience advising management in resolving problems that are complex, difficult and controversial, as demonstrated by resolving problems with both internal and external impact. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participate with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 13 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to develop and implement an organization-wide strategic communication plan? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in the performance of this task. I have had training in the development and execution of a strategic communication plans. I have participated as a member of a team that was responsible for the development and implementation of an organization-wide strategic communication plan. I have led the development and implementation of an organization-wide strategic communication plan. 14 Which of the following public affairs or communications tasks have you performed in your position? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have organized media briefings. I have fostered close contacts with the media, by providing interviews, hosting journalists and assisting with filming and photo shoots. I have coordinated visits of government, dignitaries, public officials, and/or potential donors. I have written, designed, and produced content and materials for web and print distribution. I have developed communications or media plans for a cultural institution. I have managed media campaigns. I have used social media as a part of communications campaign. I have prepared briefing material for senior management or public official. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.