Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems. I have completed coursework related to HVAC systems but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical HVAC systems by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical HVAC systems. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical HVAC systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for HVAC systems by troubleshooting HVAC equipment. 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting refrigeration/air conditioning problems at work? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created new solutions for unique equipment/system issues. None of the above. 3 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. None of the above. 4 Have you assisted with gathering tools for assignments and preparing work sites (e.g., covering work areas with protective materials)? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems. I have completed coursework related to HVAC systems but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical HVAC systems by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical HVAC systems. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical HVAC systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for HVAC systems by troubleshooting HVAC equipment. 2 How have you used a pipe threading machine? Answer to this question is required Determined which size teeth were necessary based on pipe size Cleaned metal debris from the machine Oiled/lubricated the machine Put new teeth on the machine Threaded a piece of pipe Used a nipple chuck None of the above 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting refrigeration/air conditioning problems at work? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created new solutions for unique equipment/system issues. None of the above. 4 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 For which refrigeration/air conditioning systems have you independently installed, maintained, or repaired? Answer to this question is required Kitchen steamers Walk-in refrigerators or freezers Reach-ins Under counter boxes Bain-maries or tilts Cold pans Refrigerated cold pans Steam tables Blast chillers Dishwashers Steam soup kettles None of the above 2 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 3 Have you independently interpreted refrigeration and air conditioning drawings or schematics to explain to or instruct others how to install, maintain, or repair equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 5 Which types of valves have you installed? Answer to this question is required Pop off valves Steam valves Pressure relief valves Pressure reducing valves Chilled water valves Gate valves Solenoid valves None of the above 6 When working with dishwashers, have you checked relays and replaced parts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which outcomes have you experienced because of your troubleshooting skills? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency or productivity The identification of inconsistent procedures among staff (i.e., how installation, maintenance, repair work was performed) The implementation of a new procedure A cost-savings Satisfied customers None of the above 8 Which tools or equipment have you independently used to install, maintain, or repair refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Volt meter Gantry Motor lift Power hoist None of the above 9 How have you assisted with maintaining an inventory of tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Notified a supervisor when supplies were damaged or running low Placed inventory/tracking numbers on tools or equipment Placed inventory in the correct storage place Organized tools or equipment according to inventory plan None of the above 10 Which hand tools have you used to assist with the installation, maintenance, or repair of refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Pipe wrenches Screw drivers A rule Refrigeration gauges Tape measures Levels Gear pullers Box open wrenches Temperature guns Socket sets Manual pallet jacks None of the above 11 Which tools or equipment have you used to assist with the installation, maintenance, or repair of refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Grinders Smoke heaters Drill presses Tubing Cutters Refrigeration recovery machines Ban saws Sawzall tool Shop vacuums C-snakes Vacuum pump Hand Drills None of the above 12 Which pipefitting or plumbing tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout the piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running the supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 13 On which refrigeration/air conditioning topics or theories have you completed coursework or on the job training? Answer to this question is required Air/pressure flow or fan operations Sub-cooling British Thermal Units (BTUs) Hydronics Piping layout Low voltage power sources Valve types and purposes Direct digital control (DDC) systems Pneumatic systems Heating coil and cooling coil operations The purpose of belts in refrigeration/air conditioning systems Motors (e.g., single phase, three phase) None of the above 14 On which types of valves have you completed coursework or on the job training? Answer to this question is required Pop off valves Steam valves Pressure relief valves Pressure reducing valves None of the above 15 Which refrigeration/air conditioning resources have you interpreted and explained to others? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.