Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 4 I have experience where my primary responsibilities were to: Answer to this question is required Develop work schedules Sequence tasks. Identify available resources. Decide among competing priorities. Develop contingency plans. Follow up on or evaluate work progress. None of the above. 5 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in a team environment? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to team members. Reviewing and editing written work for accuracy and quality. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring team members to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management, both orally and in writing. Rewarding and recognizing performance. None of the above. 6 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 7 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 8 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 9 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience designing and implementing human resources (HR) initiatives in the employee relations and labor relations areas: Answer to this question is required I have designed policies and strategies to strengthen the culture of accountability to support overall agency mission accomplishments. I have designed or selected survey instruments to improve the quality and delivery of HR services. I have developed program guides to continuously improve the quality of HR services. I have conducted fact-finding interviews and extensive research to gather useful feedback and collect comprehensive data to assess HR processes (performance improvement, leadership development, etc). I have analyzed survey results and interview findings to frame initial analysis and build on the data and lessons learned for a variety of HR initiatives (i.e. disciplinary action, performance management, learning and knowledge management, and succession planning). I have summarized findings of a study to improve and monitor trends to determine if targeted goals are on track to meet mission objectives. I have developed recommendations and options to ensure that maximum program advantage is gained and linked to strategic goals. I have led a study team, and have been accountable for delivery of a product. I have prepared final study reports. I have developed and carried out the implementation of approved recommendations. I have participated as a study / review team member. I have led a study team and have been accountable for delivering a product. I have developed programs and policies and provided technical assistance to managers, employees, or Human Resources specialist on Alternative Work Schedules. I have monitored, analyzed, and evaluated the effectiveness of training plans, programs, studies, methods and results in terms of fulfilling an organizations overall and special training needs. None of the above. 10 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.