Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Senior Correctional Program Specialist must have knowledge of all areas of correctional programs in order to assess policies and programs and provide expert level advice to staff internal and external to the organization.&nbsp; He/she must possess a comprehensive understanding of the policies and procedures related to all areas of correctional programs in order to effectively develop and implement policies and procedures, develop and conduct training and administer programs in accordance with established governing regulations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported data and information to program coordinators regarding correctional programs issues; and/or I have successfully completed a variety of functions directly related to correctional programs; and/or I have established inter-office procedures to handle priority tasks; and/or I have researched policy in completing assigned tasks; and/or I have developed a unit management/case management checklist or procedure that was subsequently implemented by the institution; and/or I have provided correctional programs policy interpretation to non-agency personnel; and/or I have provided detailed training to staff regarding the implementation of a new BOP program; and/or I have monitored and administered oversight of a specialized case management program for the institution (i.e., Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM) Program, Victim Witness Program (VWP) Program, Admissions and Orientation program). I have provided regional oversight and guidance over correctional programs within a correctional environment; and/or I have provided technical expertise regarding case/unit management issues and reporting such issues directly to the Executive Staff of an institution; and/or I have successfully served as a program coordinator for Financial Responsibility Program (FRP), Release Preparation, and/or Victim Witness Program (VWP) Coordinator; and/or I have developed a training course on specialized case/unit management functions or requirements; and/or I have reviewed various laws and/or regulations and made a determination of the need for additional policy; and/or I have used new legislative information to make additions to and/or update existing policy; and/or I have reviewed and certified Treaty Transfer Program (TTP), Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM), or Residential Re-Entry Center (RRC) packets prior to submission to final approval authority. I have assisted in preparing Administrative Remedy responses (BP-9); and/or I am currently certified in all areas of Correctional Programs (Central Inmate Monitoring (CIMS), Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC), etc.); and/or I have followed agency procedures to complete assignments; and/or I have completed scheduled internal audits; and/or I have assisted in preparing a streamlined procedure for a case management/unit management/correctional programs function; and/or I have provided routine information/policy interpretation of case management policies to non-unit management staff; and/or I have assisted in updating an institution supplement/local policy in a correctional programs management area. None of the above. 5 The Senior Correctional Program Specialist maintains contact with and provides technical guidance and advice to institutions in the areas of IFRP, TTP, DC Offender issues and other complex case/unit management topics. &nbsp;He/she also develops curriculum and facilitates local and national training sessions on program related topics to institution staff, and personnel of other agencies involved in corrections and presents briefings to executive management staff both internal and external to the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for interpreting and providing expert guidance on assigned program areas as the office of primary interest.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented the agency in providing training to other federal agencies or other countries’ law enforcement agents; and/or I have advised senior management officials of recommended changes; and/or I have directed staff during crisis situation; and/or I have testified on behalf of the agency/organization in formal proceedings (court, dispositions, etc.); and/or I have communicated with distraught family members; and/or I have presented a speech at a civic or community activity as a representative of the institution/organization; and/or I have developed effective presentations and lesson plans to train employees on a national level on a change in unit management/case management policy or procedures; and/or I have facilitated meetings with senior agency executives at the national level to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue having wide agency impact. I have provided training to institution or regional staff; and/or I have served on Community Relations Board; and/or I have made presentations to Associate Wardens relating to status of activities at the institution; and/or I have provided oral information to court officials via telephone; and/or I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials at the local level to develop internal policy, training programs or resolve non-routine issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations and/or revised existing lesson plans that are utilized to train or inform participants at a national level; and/or presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to line staff, supervisors and upper level managers. I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings; and/or I have assisted in providing training to institution/regional staff; and/or I have presented operational review/internal audit findings during departmental meetings for supervisory consideration. None of the above. 6 The Senior Correctional Program Specialist is responsible for preparing technical and non-technical reports, letters and other correspondence dealing with issues relative to the Inmate Financial Responsibility Program (IFRP), DC Offender, Treaty Transfer Program (TTP), or other unit/case management related topics.&nbsp; He/she prepares complex responses to congressional inquiries, or other inquiries received from agencies involved in the correctional process.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax and format in order to effectively prepare/edit letters, papers, for high-level use. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by peers; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have edited internal newsletters; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have drafted articles, memorandums, and information which was used nationally for training purposes or posted on a national website. I have grammatically corrected correspondence prior to release; and/or I have prepared routine or recurring response to internal inquiries; and/or I have documented and prepared meeting minutes for executive/top management level meetings; and/or I have proofread training curriculum for an instructor. I have prepared draft articles for internal newsletters; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review; and/or I have updated articles, and revised memorandums, and information utilized for local training purposes. None of the above. 7 The Senior Correctional Program Specialist develops implements, and plans policies and procedures that promote the effective management of the Treaty Transfer Program (TTP), Inmate Financial Responsibility Program (IFRP), DC Offender, and national training programs for the Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp;He/she is involved in the on-going development and revision of policy and programs and is responsible for interpreting, collaborating efforts, and resolving correctional program related issues with involved parties. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed sentence computations; and/or I have determined workforce characteristics through an analysis of statistics; and/or I have generated rosters to evaluate discrepancies in caseload management; and/or I have approved an inmate’s job change request after considering relevant information; and/or I have developed local office procedures that complied with national policy; and/or I have responded to routine inmate inquiries in writing and during office hours. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have participated on a program/operational review team in order to analyze effective operations of a correctional program; and/or I have evaluated results of an investigation and drew conclusions regarding program procedures and provided recommendations for improvement for management consideration; an/or I have identified and counseled staff regarding case/unit management issues. I have collected information and made recommendations for the implementation of a new unit/case management program or procedure; and/or I have gathered data for evaluating agency practices and proposed changes aimed at reducing barriers and increasing effectiveness; and/or I have participated on a task force/workgroup which analyzed correctional management issues and provided recommendations for policy or procedural improvements; and/or I have researched, gathered and organized data and responded to a court on a complex or controversial issue. None of the above. 8 The Senior Correctional Program Specialist is expected to handle assignments from inception to completion in an independent manner.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for a variety of technical and complex assignments and must be able to prioritize workload to ensure assignments are completed in a timely manner and re-prioritize assignments as needed to meet the mission of the office.&nbsp; He/she must possess strong organization skills, along with the ability to work on multiple assignments simultaneously. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assumed a lead position to coordinate and oversee efforts to successfully complete complex assignments involving multiple agencies; and/or I have effectively planned time and resources needed to complete difficult long-term and short-term projects having significant impact on operations; and/or I have reviewed, ensured/obtained all documentation required to justify action taken by agency/organization; and/or I have negotiated efforts to resolve issues with non-BOP and uncooperative participants; and/or I have completed assignments by performing research and proposing actions which best meet the needs of the agency/organization. I have re-prioritized work based on last minute assignments or staff shortages; and/or I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have recommended ideas for consideration to streamline a current process; and/or I have followed current methods and procedures to accomplish assignments; and/or I have completed assignments with minimal instructions and follow-up by supervisor. I have prioritized work based on agency/organization goals; and/or I have completed and submitted assignments accurately and timely; and/or I have developing procedures, checklists, to track completion and ensure accuracy of finished product; and/or I have effectively managed workload and exceeded required deadlines; and/or I have implemented guidance or instructions to improve work process; and/or I have delegated tasks to subordinates to meet agency deadlines; and/or I have rearranged priorities due to the assignment of a special project. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).