Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select one response below that indicates how you meet the education/experience requirements for this position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have one-year specialized experience as defined in the qualifications section of this announcement at the next lower grade level in the federal or private sector. I have a combination of education and experience. I do not have the requied education or experience. 3 Have you&nbsp;successfully&nbsp;secured&nbsp;six-figure&nbsp;philanthropic gifts via grants or sponsorships?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 How much experience do you have working with tools and resources used to identify new donors/prospect? Answer to this question is required I have some experience identifying and cultivating prospects using tools and resources I have experience identifying and cultivating prospects as a part of my role/past role I have experience identifying, cultivating, successfully soliciting, and stewarding new donors I have no experience with identifying and cultivating prospects 5 Do you have experience developing and implementing strategies or creating strategic plans to cultivate new foundation donors? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 How would you describe your experience as it relates to cultivating and communicating with donors? Answer to this question is required Experience preparing proposals at the direction of others with minimal exposure to donor communications. Experience playing a role on a team to cultivate and solicit donors with regular communication with donors. Experience being the primary relationship holder with a donor and am responsible for solicitation and regular communication. None of the above. 7 Are you familiar with preparing budgets, gathering impact data for the purposes of reporting, and preparing written reports for donors and for internal stakeholders? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Are you experienced in project management, including the use of project management tools such as Asana or Wrike? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.