Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience balancing competing priorities among multiple simultaneous projects and ensuring self and others meet deadlines and produce deliverables as necessary for project success? Answer to this question is required I have supported multiple projects at the same time by managing my own tasks and schedules, adjusting priorities as needed and coordinating with team members to meet deadlines and contribute to a successful project outcome. I have participated as a team member on projects where priorities were established by others, and I completed assigned tasks on time while balancing competing demands from more than one project. I have worked on projects with defined tasks and deadlines under close supervision and followed established priorities to complete assigned work. I do not have experience managing multiple simultaneous projects, schedules, and priorities. 3 Which of the following public inquiry management tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from media outlets and journalists. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from museum professionals and academics. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from editors and publishers. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from commercial entities for product development. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from K-12 educators and students. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from the general public for private use. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of policies, standards and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images? Answer to this question is required I have education and training in policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. With supervision, I have applied policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. I have interpreted policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. I have guided others in applying policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. I have no knowledge of policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. 5 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with rights and reproductions policies as they pertain to copyrighted works in a public collection? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the rights and reproductions function for works in a public collection. I have work experience with applying policies of fair use and public domain as they pertain to public collections. I have work experience researching copyright and/or personality rights for works in public collections. I have work experience in locating and communicating with rights holders and in the negotiation of image license and usage agreements. I have no experience with rights and reproductions policies. 6 Which of the following activities related to the fulfillment of requests for image rights and reproductions have you performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have formally responded in writing to requests for image rights and reproduction. I have responded orally to individuals or organizations requesting image rights and reproduction. I have completed or assisted with documentation paperwork for formal permissions, fees and image delivery, in coordination with curatorial or other appropriate staff. I have processed, recorded or filed fees and payments related to the fulfillment for image rights and reproduction of requests. I do not have expertise with the fulfillment of requests for image rights and reproduction. 7 Which of the following describes your knowledge of copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in developing and implementing a code of best practices that includes policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works to improve access to a museum’s digital assets, and yet protect the museum from liability. I have work experience providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have knowledge about copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have no experience with providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards. 8 Which of the following describes your knowledge or experience with digital asset rights or permissions management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience managing rights or permissions data for digital assets. I have work experience verifying and attributing rights or permissions to digital assets. I am familiar with open content strategies and public licensing such as Creative Commons. I am familiar with intellectual property rights (copyright, public domain) and attribution to digital assets. I have no knowledge or experience related to digital asset rights or permissions management. 9 Which of the following describes&nbsp;your experience&nbsp;with digitization methods as applied to collections held by museums, archives, and libraries? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have performed photography of three-dimensional objects or artworks, utilizing specialized equipment such as a professional digital camera system. I have performed the imaging of complex 2-dimensional materials such as historical papers, books, or photographic materials, utilizing specialized equipment such as a professional digital camera or flatbed scanner. I have performed the reformatting of legacy/analog audiovisual formats (for example film, vinyl, and magnetic media), utilizing specialized conversion equipment. I have managed digitization projects involving multiple people and handoffs. I have worked with digitization vendors. I have evaluated and recommended hardware (such as cameras, scanners, lighting, etc.), software, or other technologies to be used in digitization, based on organizational requirements and available resourcing. I have trained or supported others’ use of digitization hardware, software or other technologies. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience in using a collections information system? Answer to this question is required I have used Mimsy XG or similar collections information system to query and record collections management data. I have used a collections information system (CIS) to query and record collections management data. I have used a collections information system (CIS) to query collections management data, but not record it. I have not used a collections information system (CIS) to query and record collections management data. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience using digital asset management systems and imaging software programs? Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used Open Text and/or other digital asset management systems (DAMS) and have performed digital asset uploads and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I regularly use the Adobe Creative Suite (i.e. Photoshop, Fireworks, Illustrator). I have a general working knowledge of digital asset management systems and software, and I have performed digital asset uploads and retrievals. I am familiar with and have used the Adobe Creative Suite. I am familiar with and have used Adobe Creative Suite. I have experience with other imaging software programs. I have no experience with digital asset management systems or imaging software. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.