Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Occupational Safety contacts include: executive staff (Central Office, regional and institution), Federal Safety and Health officials , principal safety and health officials of other agencies, labor representatives, elected officials, attorneys, consultants, vendors and others on a national, state, municipal and county level. Contacts are necessary for program justification, policy development, and daily operation of the occupational safety program, training or settling highly significant and controversial occupational safety issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have represented the agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served in a leadership role on a community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote the agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have presented national training programs to other agency safety professionals; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department, police department, etc.; and/or I have served as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have participated on a workgroup tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization multi-faceted projects/program (i.e., development and implementation of OHSAS 18001); and/or I have provided technical advice, assistance and direction to all Bureau staff, at the Central Office, Regional and Institutional levels, regarding the development and implementation of occupational safety programs and related concerns; and/or I have conducted national training as an instructor related to occupational safety programs and OHSAS 18001 training sessions within the agency or for professional organizations; and/or I have provided advice and assistance to institutions responding to regulatory bodies; and/or I have participated in Department of Justice technical initiatives to ensure the interests of the agency is represented. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Occupational Safety prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include Department of Justice officials, other federal agency executives, executives/members of national professional organizations, state and local safety administrators, line staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created technical reports that detailed deficiencies and provided recommendations for corrective actions to institutions following technical assistance visits implementing occupational safety programs and ISO 18001; and/or I have developed technical scope of work relating to occupational safety program areas, including the use of outside consultants and vendor-lead training; and/or I have developed final reports based on standard observations and analysis consolidated with other occupational safety findings and evaluated recommendations; and/or I have prepared written briefs and trainings for occupational safety related programs; and/or I have prepared reports of Notices of Violations received from OSHA relating to occupational safety violations. I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared a Safety Branch status briefing for Executive Staff; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums, revised or rewritten operational safety procedures on specific job tasks. I have used generated data from occupational safety to prepare reports to guide future occupational safety initiatives and projects; and/or I have written strategic plans which incorporated occupational safety issues; and/or I have provided written input on the preparation of budget requests to ensure adequate resources are available to achieve occupational safety mission requirements; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural safety guide explaining laws, regulations, etc., in laymen terms; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying a decision made by agency/organization related to occupational safety programs and initiatives. I have prepared and submitted monthly occupational safety and environmental health reports to the Warden or CEO; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for Warden or CEO signature; and/or I have composed general memorandums to all staff regarding internal safety, environmental health, workers compensation or fire protection procedures; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Occupational Safety is responsible for establishing, formulating, executing, and enforcing national policy, programs and priorities to achieve compliance with the intent of occupational safety legislation and related standards, orders, rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided guidance pertaining to various life safety topics; and/or I have identified life safety deficiencies and made recommendations; and/or I have conducted inspections on older buildings and housing units and identify deficiencies and determined what is acceptable. I have modified standard practices and procedures in resolving complex problems associated with the implementation of occupational safety programs and initiatives; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office occupational safety operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity designed to improve morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have chaired a task force which analyzed problems within a specific occupational safety related field and recommended appropriate policy changes or revisions; and/or I have served as a trouble shooter in dealing with a national occupational safety issue. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific occupational safety reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have reviewed assigned occupational safety program goals correlated with the management and development of other physical resources in occupational safety program areas and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations are maintained; and/or I have conducted technical assistance visits to aid institutions in implementing occupational safety programs and ISO 18001, to ensure the effectiveness and uniformity of safety programs Bureau-wide; and/or I have provided technical reference to the field regarding occupational safety compliance and OHSAS 18001 implementation; and/or as a liaison, I have, coordinated occupational safety training programs by identifying training needs for field personnel, evaluating training costs and providing lists for training announcements to MSTC participants and resource staff. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Occupational Safety is responsible for the development of an effective comprehensive plan for environmental compliance consistent with the mission of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He/she coordinates staff work assignments to ensure branch mission is achieved and technical services are provided to Central office, Regional, and field locations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by the subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a mentoring program. I have devised and implemented management of staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in the subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned reading assignments to subordinates in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Occupational Safety must have a thorough knowledge of all occupational safety issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected information and made recommendations to improve the efficiency of safety procedures; and/or I have trained on infection control policies; and/or I have assisted institutions in improving their safety programs; and/or I have enforced regulations of the American Correctional Association (ACA); and/or I have enforced procedures of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and made recommendations to resolve mobility issues; and/or I have assisted in writing a statement of work. I have provided risk assessment evaluations on occupational health issues; and/or I have received outside certification as a fire safety or environmental health inspector; and/or I have researched specific safety material and provided an analysis of policy revisions recommended; and/or I have created a new safety related training program to be used at the organizational level. I have conducted training classes to a local audience on specific safety, environmental health, life and fire safety issues; and/or I have conducted safety inspections at a local level to identify specific deficiencies and recommended corrective actions to improve working conditions; and/or I have provided advice on safety related issues to local management officials; and/or I have worked closely with local management officials on improving workplace safety through constant communications with department head employees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).