Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Administrative Assistants perform support services for their assigned department and work with Central Office, Regional Office and institution department staff. They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management, etc. They must possess strong written communication skills to clearly convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings, using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have summarized inventory data in a report; and/or I have prepared grammatical free memoranda for supervisory signature; and/or I have prepared a detailed report explaining potential problems in department operations which included recommendations for further consideration/ implementation. I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. None of the above. 3 Administrative Assistants are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to his/her supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the general public, inmates, central office and regional office staff. They must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to employees and telephone callers interested in obtaining information; and/or I have communicated with vendors to request information (e.g. bids for office equipment); and/or I have discussed information gathered with my supervisor; and/or I have relayed information regarding specific programs/issues to staff. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group in the work unit; and/or I have participated as part of a team to provide information; and/or I have assisted in minor complaints impacting the work area. I have responded to inmate inquiries; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff member; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the general public or employees. None of the above. 4 Administrative Assistants plan and organize work, efficiently utilizing time and available resources. They must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and rearrange priorities when workload dictates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored, adjusted and distributed the workload for staff, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have ensured any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants, coordinating training for participants, and preparing conference material/information, etc. I have trained fellow employees and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work assignments; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have coordinated work with other divisions for special projects; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection systems. I have made travel arrangements for staff; and/or I have maintained supervisor's calendar; and/or I have reserved local conference rooms for meetings; and/or I have maintained tracking system of office expenditures/budget; and/or I have gathered information for special projects. None of the above. 5 Administrative Assistants must be able to research, retrieve, review and process various information pertaining to program area service operations. They must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums using WordPerfect; and/or I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence prepared by others on the computer. I have created tables on WordPerfect; and/or I have used Microsoft Access to create a database; and/or I have created a desk guide using a variety of WordPerfect functions. I have provided general information to managers and staff via e-mail; and/or I have used the internet to retrieve information, news releases, updates and related information; and/or I have used a database to track information. None of the above. 6 Administrative Assistants must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to the program area assigned. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have reviewed program area files for completeness; and/or I have maintained an established filing system for document/information storage/retrieval. I have established files to enable co-workers/ supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the annual inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor's use. I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence. None of the above. 7 Administrative Assistants must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of a correctional environment, along with program specific guidelines and requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inquiries received regarding program/area requirements; and/or I have responded to general leave policy questions; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. I have applied necessary changes in procedures as indicated by company policy; and/or I have adhered to policy when determining deadline for vendor payments; and/or I have explained policy and procedures to inmates, staff, or others. I have reviewed post orders and emergency plans, as required by policy; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).