Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 4 From the list below, identify all of the type(s) of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have been a project leader but not a supervisor. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting multilateral negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually with guidance from senior leadership. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually without guidance from senior leadership. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 9 Please indicate your level of experience enlisting the cooperation and participation of senior Department or Agency officials in a project or process. Answer to this question is required I have no experience enlisting the cooperation and participation of senior officials in a project or process I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of an Office or Bureau Director in a project or process that I managed. I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of Directors from an office or bureau in a bureau-wide project or process that I managed. I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of senior Department or Agency level executives in a Department-wide project or process that I managed. 10 Which of the following responses best reflects your level of experience in business process analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in business process analyses. I have assisted in describing and analyzing existing business processes. I have done business process analysis, describing existing processes and proposing new and better process and replacements. I have done business process analyses, describing both existing new processes and developed migration plans for shifting to the new one. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for an office or bureau. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for the Department. 11 Which of the following BEST describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have no work experience in this area. I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor or senior employee. I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas. 12 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 13 Which of the following project management tools/techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques and I have experience in negotiating. I have no formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have experience in negotiating. I have no experience, formal training, or education in negotiation. 15 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 16 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Negotiations None of the above 17 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with written communication at work? Answer to this question is required Short informal emails to customers, supervisors, peers and subordinates. Formal informational announcements via email. Letters or reports to internal or external personnel outlining organizational policies and procedures. Detailed reports with technical data, analyses and recommendations to senior managers. Form letters to customers, supervisor, peers, and/or subordinates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.