Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following:&nbsp; Experience leading chemical treatment programs, developing new technologies, and serving as subject matter expert. &nbsp; 2 Do you have experience with Industrial Water Treatment? Answer to this question is required I have no direct experience. I have limited experience and require assistance under supervision. I have independently managed protocols. I have led program-wide strategy . 3 What is your experience with p roblem-solving &amp; innovation as a chemist? Answer to this question is required I have done routine adjustments. I have assisted in troubleshooting. I have independently analyzed trends. I have led new technologies. 4 What safety &amp; environmental practices have you participated in? Answer to this question is required OSHA compliance PPE usage Confined space Hazardous waste handling 5 What is your experience with handling regulatory &amp; environmental compliance ? Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience. I have followed regulatory & environmental compliance procedures. I have monitored regulatory & environmental compliance. I have developed regulatory & environmental compliance programs. 6 What is your knowledge on Corrosion, Scaling, and Fouling Control?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Awareness only I have assisted evaluations. I have independently refined strategies. I have led enterprise-level strategies 7 What have you done regarding d ata analytics &amp; reporting? Answer to this question is required I have done minimal data work. I have worked with basic trends. I have led analysis and created reports. I have managed analytics and optimization. 8 What is your experience with Program Management &amp; SOPs? Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience. I have supported SOP development. I have managed SOPs and made improvements. I have led the planning and considered a SME. 9 What is your experience with contract oversight? Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience. I have participated in contract oversight. I have provided technical input for contract oversight. I served as a COTR. 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.