Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed and implemented: Answer to this question is required Security Clearance Adjudication Facility / Information Access Force Protection High-threat Security Guard Force Operations Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Counter Intelligence Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Training None of the above 4 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully implemented. Answer to this question is required Counter-Intelligence Counter-Terrorism Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance None of the above 5 From the list below, select the budget tasks you have performed . (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed budget estimates Developed budget plans Analyzed obligations and expenditures Ensured budget compliance with statutory and administrative compliance. None of the above. 6 Of the following, indicate the security statutes, authorities, policies and/or procedures with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Department of State Authorization Act Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) President`s Management Agenda Prompt Pay Act Program specific legislation, such as the Patriot Act Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM)/ Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH) International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) policies and procedures A-76 and competitive sourcing Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) Omnibus Security Act of 1985 Public Law 99-399 None of the above 7 Please indicate the types of resources you have allocated across a wide range of security programs? Answer to this question is required Logistical Workforce Operational Financial None of the above 8 From the choices below, which Radio Frequency technology do you have experience working on? Answer to this question is required HF radio systems UHF and VHF radio systems Antenna and feed line fabrication systems Satellite communications systems None of the above 9 Which of the following describes how you acquired knowledge of state-of-the-art security practices, procedures, and systems? Answer to this question is required Formal degree Course certificate Apprenticeship training Directly related work experience Personal study I do not have knowledge of state-of-the-art security practices, polices, procedures and systems 10 I have served as program manager on the following types of projects: Answer to this question is required Planning, design, and/or construction of electrical, telecommunications, and/or radio frequency and acoustical shielding for office building complexes. Planning, design, and/or construction of electrical, telecommunications, and/or radio frequency and acoustical shielding for institutional facilities. Planning, design, and/or construction of electrical, telecommunications, and/or radio frequency and acoustical shielding for residential developments. Planning, design, and/or construction of electrical, and/or telecommunications for roads, highways, and site improvements. Planning, design, and/or construction of electrical, telecommunications, and/or radio frequency and acoustical shielding in other types of facilities. None of the above 11 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 12 Which of the following training program activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Conducted organizational training needs assessments through studies and/or surveys. Recommended alternative training delivery systems (e.g., distance learning, computer-based training, etc.). Prioritized organizational training requirements. Administered training program budgets. Partnered with educational institutions to provide tailored training or educational opportunities. Recommended and implemented new training opportunities. Determined the best sources of training for various subject / issues (e.g., contract, in-house). Conducted outreach initiatives to promote training and career development. None of the above. 13 From the following list of verbal communication activities, please identify those you have routinely performed in your employment: Answer to this question is required Provided telephone support to resolve technical problems with users of hardware or software. Provided informal instructions and directions to users concerning complex software use. Gave presentations to small groups within the user community. Gave presentations to large groups of users (twenty or more). Delivered formal classroom instruction covering technical subject matter. Represented my employer as a conference leader or speaker at formal conferences. Represented my employer as a lead negotiator in dealings with contractors, vendors or service providers from outside the agency. None of the above. 14 In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 15 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 16 Which of the following have you performed as a program manager for an automated Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS)? Answer to this question is required I have managed a program internal to my organization. I have managed a program requiring extensive coordination, both internal and external to my organization. I have managed a program with an international profile. I have been assigned a particular segment of a team program implementation or startup that was successfully deployed. None of the above. 17 Select the program management work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Formulates requirements for an organization. Reviews technology to identify potential applications for future communications systems. Develops detailed lists of equipment and capabilities to satisfy current requirements. Reviews, refines, and translates requirements into language that can be used in contracting processes. Plans and implements the installation and acceptance phases of approved projects and contracts. Develop personnel staffing levels for current and long-term requirements, or for emergency networks. Reviews and recommends specific kinds of communications security systems according to operating requirements, classification or sensitivity of planned traffic, and locations of stations. Ensures that equipment required to process and ensure the smooth flow of electronic message traffic is operational. Ensure that necessary cryptographic and other program changes are made as scheduled. Ensures that technical issues / changes to the information technology configuration are addressed and implemented. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.