Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 08 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems. I have completed coursework related to HVAC systems but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical HVAC systems by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical HVAC systems. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical HVAC systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for HVAC systems by troubleshooting HVAC equipment. 2 For which kitchen refrigeration equipment have you assisted others performing installation, maintenance, or repair work? Answer to this question is required Kitchen steamers Walk-in refrigerators or freezers Reach-ins Under counter boxes Bain-maries or tilts Cold pans Refrigerated cold pans Steam tables Blast chillers Dishwashers Steam soup kettles None of the above 3 Which refrigeration/air conditioning resources have you interpreted and applied with help from others? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Policies and procedures None of the above 4 Which tools or equipment have you used to assist with the installation, maintenance, or repair of refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Grinders Smoke heaters Drill presses Tubing Cutters Refrigeration recovery machines Ban saws Sawzall tool Shop vacuums C-snakes Vacuum pump Hand Drills None of the above 5 For which&nbsp;HVAC and refrigeration equipment have you assisted others performing installation, maintenance or repair work? Answer to this question is required Split systems Constant Air Volume Variable Air Volume Duct Cleaning Programmable Thermostats Humidifiers Indoor Air Quality Heat Pumps Fan Coil Units Induction Units None of the above 6 Have you disassembled, performed a repair, and then reassembled refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 8 Which outcomes have you experienced because of your troubleshooting skills? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency or productivity The identification of inconsistent procedures among staff (i.e., how installation, maintenance, repair work was performed) The implementation of a new procedure A cost-savings Satisfied customers None of the above 9 Which refrigeration/air conditioning resources have you interpreted and explained to others? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above Grade: 10 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical HVAC systems. I have completed coursework related to HVAC systems but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical HVAC systems by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical HVAC systems. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for mechanical HVAC systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for HVAC systems by troubleshooting HVAC equipment. 2 Have you independently interpreted refrigeration and air conditioning drawings or schematics to explain to or instruct others how to install, maintain, or repair equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 For which refrigeration/air conditioning systems have you independently installed, maintained, or repaired? Answer to this question is required Kitchen steamers Walk-in refrigerators or freezers Reach-ins Under counter boxes Bain-maries or tilts Cold pans Refrigerated cold pans Steam tables Blast chillers Dishwashers Steam soup kettles None of the above 4 Which tools or equipment have you independently used to install, maintain, or repair refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Volt meter Gantry Motor lift Power hoist None of the above 5 Do you have experience checking voltages on a circuit board using your knowledge of refrigeration/air conditioning theory? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 For which&nbsp;HVAC and refrigeration equipment have you assisted others performing installation, maintenance or repair work? Answer to this question is required Split systems Constant Air Volume Variable Air Volume Duct Cleaning Programmable Thermostats Humidifiers Indoor Air Quality Heat Pumps Fan Coil Units Induction Units None of the above 7 Have you disassembled, performed a repair, and then reassembled refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 9 Which outcomes have you experienced because of your troubleshooting skills? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency or productivity The identification of inconsistent procedures among staff (i.e., how installation, maintenance, repair work was performed) The implementation of a new procedure A cost-savings Satisfied customers None of the above 10 Which refrigeration/air conditioning resources have you interpreted and explained to others? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 I have interpreted and closely followed oral instructions given by others. Answer to this question is required True False 2 Have you assisted others when applying trade practices related to refrigeration and air conditioning? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Have you identified a refrigeration/air conditioning problem early, which prevented severe consequences from occurring? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 4.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.