Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of moving image formats and their content for implementation in digital access projects within a library or museum (digital and analog formats).** Utilized and/or demonstrated knowledge of moving images, including digital and analog formats and their content, in order to perform the following: 1) design, 2) development, and 3) implementation of digital access projects within a library or museum. Answer to this question is required Utilized and/or demonstrated knowledge of moving images, including digital and analog formats, and their content in order to perform ALL of the following: 1) design, 2) development, and 3) implementation of digital access projects within a library or museum. Utilized and/or demonstrated knowledge of moving images, including digital and analog formats, and their content in order to perform at least TWO (2) of the following: 1) design, 2) development, and 3) implementation of digital access projects within a library or museum. Utilized and/or demonstrated knowledge of moving images, including digital and analog formats, and their content in order to perform at least ONE (1) of the following: 1) design, 2) development, and 3) implementation of digital access projects within a library or museum. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to perform research and expert analysis in digital technologies, projects and programs.** Researches, identifies, and resolves issues impacting digital program initiatives in major agency programs including: 1) identifying and making recommendations and coordinating improvements to agency services and programs 2) keeping current on issues and investigating new technologies; 3) evaluating workflows and products to recommend areas for improving quality, functionality and efficiency in digital moving image projects; 4) participating in studies, analyzing and making recommendations to improve user access, collection development, automation and related policies; 5) analyzing and participating in drafting recommendations on developing standards for identifying digital moving image project priorities; 6) collecting and analyzing information from many sources, including audio-visual collections and reference sources; and 7) providing statistics, reports, and other information. Answer to this question is required Performed research, identified and resolved moderately difficult digital technology program issues or problems impacting program initiatives in major agency organizational components, and in doing so, performed at least FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. Performed research, identified and resolved moderately difficult digital technology program issues or problems impacting program initiatives in major agency organizational components, and in doing so, performed at least FOUR (4) of the above. Performed research, identified, and resolved moderately difficult digital technology program issues or problems impacting program initiatives in major agency organizational components, and in doing so, performed at least THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to apply project management techniques and processes to implement digital library projects or programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes including: 1) defining the project including its goals and objectives; 2) developing project plans; 3) estimating and allocating resources; 4) developing schedules and timelines; 5) using computer-based tools to track and monitor progress (Jira or other ticketing systems); 6) coding to build, maintain, and/or monitor digital project implementation or existing projects and/or coding to create ingest workflows and to monitor and track progress; 7) working within deadlines and budget; 8) developing communication plans and communicating with stakeholders; 9) addressing project related issues/problems; and 10) developing and implementing risk mitigation plans. Answer to this question is required Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of (7) SEVEN or (8) EIGHT of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of (5) FIVE or (6) SIX of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of (4) FOUR of the above, including (2) and (9) to implement digital library projects and programs. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others. The ability to work well and cooperate with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units) using good judgment and discretion to provide positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipated existing and future needs and exchanged accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Played a key role in discussions concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the organization to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Participated in discussions concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared and edited a wide variety of written materials in support of operational and programmatic goals. These documents include:1) project management documentation; 2) papers; 3) briefings; 4) reports; 5) draft recommendations on developing appropriate guidelines, standards and mechanisms for identifying digital project priorities; 6) draft developing guidance in the resolution of problems or issues impacting digital projects; and 7) digital content policy, metadata and standards. Answer to this question is required Independently authored SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the following written materials for dissemination internally and externally: 1) project management documentation; 2) papers; 3) briefings; 4) reports; 5) draft recommendations on developing appropriate guidelines, standards and mechanisms for identifying digital project priorities; 6) draft developing guidance in the resolution of problems or issues impacting digital projects; and 7) digital content policy, metadata and standards. With minimal supervision, authored AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above written materials for dissemination internally. Editing was performed by others. Drafted for review by others, AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above written materials for dissemination internally. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).