Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the subject areas of the Eastern and/or Western European collections of a research library or similar research institution.** Used knowledge of the subject areas of the Eastern and/or Western European library collections to provide reference services to customers. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge of Eastern and/or Western European information resources in all formats to address very complex customer information needs for the full range of subject areas at a major research library. Demonstrated extensive knowledge of Eastern and/or Western European information resources in all formats to address complex customer information needs for specialized subject areas of a research library's collection. Demonstrated knowledge of Eastern and/or Western European information resources in selected formats to address complex customer information needs for specialized subject areas of a general library collection. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Led, supervised and managed a diverse workforce and, in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production and accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved and disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates for positions, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found &nbsp;ways to improve production quality, 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging diversity and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies.** Utilized knowledge of library trends, library and information science, integrated library systems, computer technology and software applications such as: 1) Springshare, 2) integrated library systems, websites, and databases, 3) WordPress or other social media, 4) Excel, 5) PowerPoint, and other library technologies to execute library functions and provide customer service. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of integrated library systems and other library information technology to execute library functions and provide customer service in a major research library environment. Applied knowledge of integrated library systems and other library information technology to execute library functions and provide customer service in a major research library environment. Applied knowledge of integrated library systems and other library information technology to execute library functions and provide customer service in a library environment. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of Eastern and Western European languages.** Read, understood, and used a Slavic language in order to perform collection management and processing functions.&nbsp;&nbsp;Read, understood, spoke, and used other Western or Eastern European languages, not to include the languages of Portugal, Spain and the British Isles, in order to perform reference and other library services. Answer to this question is required Experience using a Slavic language to perform collection management, collection processing, and reference work in a research library environment. Extensive experience reading and speaking ONE (1) OR MORE other Western or Eastern European languages in a professional environment with the fluency of a native or near-native speaker to provide research and other library services. Experience using a Slavic language to perform collection management, collection processing, and reference work in a research library environment. Some experience and/or college level competency reading and using ONE (1) OR MORE other Western or Eastern European languages. For example, completed coursework and training at the college or graduate level or equivalent experience to provide research services. Experience using a Slavic language to perform collection management, collection processing, and reference work in a research library environment. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of acquisitions, conservation, and collection management activities, including reformatting of library materials in a major research library environment. Applied professional knowledge of acquisitions, conservation and collection management activities, including reformatting of library materials. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge in all media and formats for collection development, collection management, and collection reformatting in a major research library environment, for the full range of responsibilities of the library's collection. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of selected media and formats for collection development, collection management, and collection reformatting in a major research library environment, for the substantive responsibilities of a large general library collection. Demonstrated knowledge of collection development, collection management, and reformatting in a research library environment, for the responsibilities of a general library collection. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of reference practices and research services. Demonstrated knowledge of reference practices and research services in a library operation. This includes functions such as: 1) independently facilitating reference services for broad and varied topics or disciplines, 2) exercising a highly specialized knowledge of reference practices and research services, 3) communicating findings or information verbally and in writing to management, 4) serving as resource in providing reference services for administration's requests, 5) assisting in developing and monitoring guidelines for access to and use of materials, 6) overseeing reference service providers in meeting the needs of users, and 7) assuring that the use of library materials meet institutional policies. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in providing a wide variety of research and reference services including independently performing ALL of the above tasks in an archival and/or academic library setting on topics in multiple fields or areas of specialization. Demonstrated experience in providing a wide variety of research and reference services including independently performing AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above tasks in an archival and/or academic library setting on topics in multiple fields or areas of specialization. Demonstrated experience in providing a wide variety of research and reference services including independently performing AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above tasks in an archival and/or academic library setting on topics in multiple fields or areas of specialization. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to effectively communicate in writing. Prepared documents related to the position and the supervisory responsibilities, such as: &nbsp;1) planning documents, 2) technical proposals, 3) policies and procedures, 4) project plans and reports, 5) formal and informal correspondence, 6) speeches/presentations, 7) performance plans and evaluations, and 8) statistical reports, and 9) blog posts or social media. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, wrote ALL of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote SEVEN (7) of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).