Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your experience developing implementation plans for long-term projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience I have performed work in these areas, but my work was monitored I have performed work in these areas independently I have mentored others in these areas 4 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines. I manage multiple tasks/assignments with a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. As a team/project leader, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with my supervisor, as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas 8 Which of the following best describes your ability to manage teams? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in managing teams. I have applied this ability to work situations. I have no formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have had experience applying this ability to work situations. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 9 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 10 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 11 Which of the following BEST represents your level of involvement in developing a Process Improvement Plan? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education in developing Process Improvement Plans. I have knowledge of, or education in, the development of Process Improvement Plans but no work experience. I have been a working member of a Process Improvement Planning team under the supervision of a team leader. I have been responsible for developing specific segments of a Process Improvement Plan. I have been a team leader with overall responsibility for developing a Process Improvement Plan. I have led an agency-wide effort to develop a Process Improvement Plan. 12 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I do not have the education, training or experienced in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.