Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 I have one-year of specialized experience at the GS-8 level as listed in the vacancy announcement to qualify for the GS-9. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 I have one-year specialized experience at the GS-10 level, as listed in the vacancy announcement to qualify for the GS-11? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience with CAD/CAM software programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following reflects your experience creating and maintaining information using CAD? Answer to this question is required Experience creating CAD drawings to suit a specific application Experience using CAD software to read and mark up complex drawings Experience using Inventor or Fusion 360 Experience using AutoCAD No CAD experience. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting design specifications and details developing/recommending fabrication methods that are appropriate for projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details in order to develop and recommend fabrication methods that are appropriate for projects. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details in order to recommend fabrication methods. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details in order to develop fabrication methods. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications. I do not have this experience. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 What types of materials from the following list are you skilled in working with?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Plastics Epoxies Adhesives Wood Wood composites Laminates Metals None of the Above. 3 What is your level of skill working with materials? Answer to this question is required Experience independently fabricating wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Experience as part of a team fabricating in wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Assisted on a production team to fabricate exhibit elements None of the above. 4 What is your skill level in determining the most appropriate technique and approach for each assignment and in selecting the most appropriate materials to accomplish the task? Answer to this question is required Able to draw from direct experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Able to draw for limited experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Most often receive some guidance on materials and techniques for the task. Always select materials and techniques as directed by others. None of the above. 5 What is your highest level of experience working on or with conceptual ideas, scale layouts, detailed design drawings, or files? Answer to this question is required Experience producing shop detail drawings and 3d models from design /concept documents. Experience working with Shop detail drawings and 3d models and design/concept documents. Experience working with shop detail drawings only. Experience working with concept documents only. None of the above. 6 From the list below, select the technical services you have provided in support of exhibits construction and fabrication? Answer to this question is required Artifact mount making using brass/brazing 2D artifact mount making Artifact mount making using acrylic Developing 3D models using CAD software Running CNC using CAM software MDF/wood fabrication Developing shop drawings for client approval Welding Machining using CNC milling machines None of the above. 7 Do you have experience working in an industrial or shop environment where safety procedures are regularly followed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 What is the highest level of responsibility you have within a team setting? Answer to this question is required Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in both museum and shop settings. Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Experience working with exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Limited experience with other fabricators in a shop setting. I do not have this experience 9 What level of CAD/CAM and CNC Machine operation experience do you have? Answer to this question is required Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to design and create detailed 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to work with 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting and operate CNC machinery Experience using CAM software to operate CNC machinery. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.