Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations for cost purposes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations. I have completed formal education or training in evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations. I have evaluated the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have evaluated the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have evaluated the effectiveness and efficiency of construction operations as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following describes your experience with concepts and principles in the construction industry? Answer to this question is required Estimating Pre-project planning Partnering Life cycle costing Value engineering Construction methodologies Contracting techniques Contractor resources None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing cost estimates for major and minor construction projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in preparing cost estimates for major and minor construction projects. I have completed formal education or training in preparing cost estimates for major and minor construction projects. I have prepared cost estimates for major and minor construction projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have prepared cost estimates for major and minor construction projects as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have prepared cost estimates for major and minor construction projects as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Please select the response that describes the buildings/structures you have estimated: Answer to this question is required Site work including roads and parking Foundations Structural frameworks (steel and concrete) Exterior facades Roofing systems Windows Doors Plumbing systems Heating and ventilating and air conditioning systems Low and high voltage electrical systems Communication systems Fire protection systems Elevator and interior walls and partitions Finishing applications and properties Special equipment such as laboratory systems Security systems None of the above 7 From the list below, select the statutory design requirement and construction techniques of which you are familiar Answer to this question is required National Environmental Policy Act (hazardous materials removal) Accessibility for the disabled (ADA and UFAS) International building codes Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Federal Acquisition Regulations Office of Management and Budget Circulars None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing budget estimates developed from incomplete information such as program reports/reviews, survey reports, rough sketches and bulleted scopes of work to be included in budget requests to Congress? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in preparing budget estimates for construction projects to be presented to Congress. I have completed formal education or training in preparing budget estimates for construction projects to be presented to Congress but have not performed this task on the job. I have prepared budget estimates for construction projects to be presented to Congress on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have independently prepared budget estimates for construction projects to be presented to Congress as a regular part of a job, usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have routinely prepared budget estimates for construction projects to be presented to Congress as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or training in preparing risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects. I have completed formal education or training in preparing risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects but I have not performed this task on the job. I have prepared risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with procedures. I have independently prepared risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects as a regular part of a job and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have routinely prepared risk analysis of construction costs to assess the impact of political, economic or other pricing influences on construction projects as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting cost benefit and economic impact studies as it relates to the cost of construction projects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training in conducting cost benefit and economic impact studies. I have completed formal education or training in conducting cost benefit and economic impact studies but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have conducted cost benefit and economic impact studies on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with procedures. I have independently conducted cost benefit and economic impact studies as a regular part of a job usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have routinely conducted cost benefit and economic impact studies as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing statements of work for estimating services and participating in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for estimating services? Answer to this question is required I have routinely prepared statements of work for estimating services and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for estimating services. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have prepared statements of work for estimating or participated in technical discussions on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in preparing statements of work for estimating services and participating in technical discussions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have experience preparing statements of work for estimating services and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for estimating services as a regular part of the job. I have independently prepared statements of work for estimating services and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for estimating services usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. 12 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Project, Constructware, prolog or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Success Estimator or similar construction estimating software. I do not have experience with the listed software applications but I am willing to learn. 13 Which of the following best describes your ability to plan, schedule, oversee and direct effectively the work of other engineering and architectural staff? Answer to this question is required I have planned for, scheduled and reviewed a large group of engineer and architects work on projects. I reviewed a large group of engineer and architects work on projects. I reviewed a small group of engineer and architects work on projects. I have no experience with this. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.