Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current AOC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for or in collaboration with subordinates Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Made promotion decisions Interviewed job applicants for hire Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience fabricating metal objects (e.g., ductwork, roofing patches, hardware)? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with construction, roofing, or maintenance tasks by retrieving and placing materials or tools as instructed. I have assisted others with the fabrication of metal objects by measuring, marking, and joining materials as instructed. I have independently determined the lay out, joining method, and materials needed to fabricate metal objects. I have independently determined the lay out, joining methods, and materials needed to fabricate complex metal objects (e.g., multiple angles, scrollwork). None of the above 4 Do you have experience supervising and evaluating the work of employees performing sheet metal tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks to ensure proper completion as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 6 Which metal materials have you used to fabricate objects? Answer to this question is required Expanded steel Perforated metal Copper Stainless steel Carbon steel Diamond plate Black iron None of the above 7 Which techniques have you used to assemble or construct metal objects? Answer to this question is required Screwing Bolting Riveting Seaming Tacking Soldering Welding None of the above 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience cutting pieces from metal sheeting. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience cutting metal pieces from metal sheeting. I have cut metal pieces from metal sheeting according to the marks made by others. I have independently measured, marked, and cut metal pieces from metal sheeting. I have measured, marked, and cut metal pieces from metal sheeting in a manner that minimizes wasted material. 9 Which tasks have you independently performed to construct metal objects? Answer to this question is required Cutting metal Rolling metal Folding metal Drilling metal Painting metal Filling rough metal None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to maintain supplies and equipment for an office? Answer to this question is required Identified outdated equipment Researched new equipment Requested replacement equipment Monitored supply levels Monitored supply usage rates Ordered supplies Inventoried supplies and equipment None of the above 11 Which documents have you read and interpreted to complete construction, maintenance, or assembly tasks? Answer to this question is required Assembly instructions Equipment specifications Equipment operation manuals Safety procedures Field notes Field sketches Blueprints None of the above 12 Do you have experience in interpreting and explaining new instructions, specifications, or directives concerning changes in operational procedures to other employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Which equipment have you operated to create sheet metal objects? Answer to this question is required Crimping machines Burring machines Turning machines Beading machines None of the above 14 For which purposes have you developed sheet metal patterns? Answer to this question is required To build ductwork To build ventilation housing To repair copper roofing To build steel doors To create metal hardware None of the above 15 Which hand tools have you used to join or construct sheet metal items? Answer to this question is required Sheet metal hammer Fairmont tongs Crimpers Hand shears Hand brakes Hand rollers None of the above 16 Which tools have you used to assemble or repair items? Answer to this question is required Hand saw File Power drill Hammer Standard or Phillips head screwdriver Torpedo level Vice grips Socket sets Tin snips Scratch awl None of the above 17 Which equipment have you operated to position workers for construction, maintenance, or roofing tasks? Answer to this question is required Ladders Forklifts Aerial lifts Duct jacks None of the above 18 In which environments have you performed repair or maintenance work? Answer to this question is required In crawl spaces In attics In sub-basements Inside ductwork None of the above 19 Select the tasks that demonstrate your dexterity in performing sheet metal work. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Fabricated fittings including straight pieces, curved pieces, and fittings that involve irregular curves and planes. Fabricated items of varied angle or pitch and circumference. Constructed seams, joints, and edges related to sheet metal fabrication. Applied radial and parallel line development principles to pattern development and fabrication. None of the above. 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.