Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have experience in assessing program / project effectiveness by: Answer to this question is required Creating an audit process. Designing a study. Designing a survey / questionnaire. Implementing a survey. Analyzing outcome data related to the program / project. Reporting findings. None of the above. 4 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 5 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge of the theories and techniques, and reporting of strategic information that is quantitative in nature. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have some experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have limited experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. I have education or training in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have no experience in applying theories and techniques, and reporting strategic information that is quantitative in nature. 6 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 7 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.