Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;have direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, employees of the regional and Central Office, personnel of local, state and federal agencies, A&amp;E firms, lock manufacturers and weapons/munitions companies. Effective communication skills are required in order to provide technical assistance and obtain information to stay abreast of new equipment and/or techniques used relative to the lockshop, armory and institution security. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an established training class during Annual Refresher Training or Institution Familiarization Training; and/or I have assisted in issuing escape kits; and/or I have communicated with a weapons vendor to obtain information on ammunition, types of weapons or less than lethal munitions; and/or I have contacted equipment vendors to rent and/or purchase needed equipment. I have answered general questions from staff regarding key control; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to an alternate locksmith detailed to the position; and/or I have clarified routine technical information. I have issued emergency equipment during an institution emergency exercise; and/or I have communicated with the facilities department on job designs; and/or I have facilitated a training course on a new Disturbance Control Team equipment use; and/or I have presented recommendations to supervisor as a result of inspection findings. None of the above. 3 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must keep abreast of all emergency equipment utilized by the Bureau of Prisons. They must possess the ability to issue, purchase, maintain and train staff for use to ensure the institution is in a constant state of readiness for emergency situations inherent to a correctional environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured appropriate restraints were applied in accordance with governing policies and regulations; and/or I have assisted in the cleaning and performing minor repairs to institution firearms; and/or I have inventoried emergency equipment to assist in determining items required to be purchased. I have implemented a rotating maintenance schedule for institution firearms; and/or I have maintained adequate inventory levels of chemical agents according to regulations; and/or I have recommended the purchase of state-of-the-art disturbance control or emergency equipment. I have trained Disturbance Control Squad in the proper maintenance and accountability of equipment; and/or I have recommended equipment for issuance to Disturbance Control Team members; and/or I have ensured firearms were properly cleaned and stored. None of the above. 4 Locksmith Supervisos&nbsp;are considered the technical expert in the areas of locksmith, security and armory procedures in a federal correctional institution. They must possess comprehensive knowledge of the theories, principles, practices and techniques related to locking devices, keys, emergency equipment, firearms, chemical agents and ammunition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have pinned a lock according to instructions; and/or I have assisted in maintaining inventory records of supplies; and/or under direct supervision, I have cut basic keys for use by others (i.e., house keys, padlock keys, car keys, etc.); and/or I have used various weapons. I have determined the appropriate approach to repair a locking device/mechanisms; and/or I have performed troubleshooting of locking devices to ensure security is maintained; and/or I have utilized an automated procedure to document safe combinations, request for changes to combinations, locations of safe, etc.; and/or I have reviewed blue prints and determined locking system requirements for a specific location of a correctional facility. I have issued keys in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have followed guidelines and policy in adding and/or removing a key from a key ring; and/or I have assisted in determining door requirements by reviewing blueprints and plans; and/or I have utilized a variety of weapons used in a correctional environment. None of the above. 5 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to input, manipulate and retrieve various information from the BOP's security officer program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have re-booted computer during malfunctions; and/or I have entered routine data into system; and/or I have printed out forms (i.e., key counts and inventory sheets). I have manipulated the system to determine expiration dates of gases; and/or I have performed gas calculations to determine appropriate amount of gas needed to various situations; and/or I have modified listing by key ring hook number and/or alphabetical reports to correct/remove double entry items; and/or I have added, deleted or modified key ring information in computer. I have marked date received and entered ammunition and chemical agents into an automated system; and/or I have produced recurring reports; and/or I have retrieved requested information from program. None of the above. 6 Locksmith Supervisors in the Federal Bureau of Prisons&nbsp;are responsible for implementing and maintaining a comprehensive lock shop and armory program within a correctional facility. They must possess the ability to oversee all areas of the program to ensure all facets of security and emergency equipment used is optimized. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have checked stored weapons periodically to ensure readiness status; and/or I have performed preventative maintenance on locks; and/or I have assisted in preparing a security proposal. I have reviewed physical security requirements and identified possible security improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations for corrective actions to deficiencies related to security; and/or I have submitted a recommendation to enhance security measures for further consideration. I have served as an Alternate Security Officer; and/or I have assisted in key control as a Control Center Officer; and/or I have reported malfunctioning keys, locks or equipment to appropriate person for action. I have provided lighting alternatives during an emergency situation using back-up energy (flashlights, generators); and/or I have researched publications and trade journals to remain current on security initiatives; and/or I have ensured preventative maintenance is adhered to for institution weapons. None of the above. 7 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a security program within a correctional facility. They are also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a group project involving co-workers; and/or I have monitored tasks performed by newly hired employees; and/or I have discussed work issues with co-workers; and/or I have notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice and guidance on educational or promotion possibilities. I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have performed official mentor duties for newly hired employees; and/or I have counseled subordinates on work issues; and/or I have assisted other staff in completing training needs assessments; and/or I have identified and notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have assisted in developing and presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers; and/or I oversaw the maintenance and repair of emergency equipment; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding work procedures. None of the above. 8 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess knowledge of regulations, policies and procedures related to lockshop and armory operations. They must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively administer a Lock and Security program in a Bureau of Prisons Correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have reviewed post orders to ensure security is maintained; and/or I have assisted in performing perpetual audits; and/or I have facilitated training using established lesson plans. I have applied a variety of established lockshop and/or armory policies, procedures and guidelines in completing work assignments; and/or I have participated in a Operational Review of the lockshop/armory areas; and/or I have provided recommendations to update local policy. I have performed corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have ensured security procedures are followed; and/or I have assisted in performing an audit; and/or I have assisted in facilitating training. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).