Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 What is your familiarity with SQL (Structured Query Language)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have examined and used the results of a SQL database query. I have constructed my own SQL query. I have constructed complex queries that join more than one database table. 3 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of The Museum System (TMS) computerized collection information management system? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training related to the TMS system or other museum collections information management systems. I have not had experience, education or training related to the TMS system, but I have experience, education or training related to other museum collections information management systems . I have worked with the TMS system on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have worked with the TMS system as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Working with the TMS system has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed a wide variety of tasks routinely, I have trained others in performance of tasks, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in working with the TMS system. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience using Crystal Reports with a Collections Information System (CIS) to generate reports? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience using Crystal Reports to create new and revise existing reports for The Museum System (TMS), using subreports, groups, and formulas to generate complex acquisition, exhibition, loan or statistical reports. I have extensive experience using Crystal Reports to create new and revise existing reports for a CIS other than TMS, using subreports, groups, and formulas to generate complex acquisition, exhibition, loan or statistical reports. I have moderate experience using Crystal Reports to create new or revise existing simple reports for a CIS. I have at least one day of training in the use of Crystal Reports with a CIS. I have less than one day or no training in the use of Crystal Reports with a CIS. 5 Which of the following answer(s) describes tasks you have regularly performed in previous positions creating and enhancing digital collection records in The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in helping to create standards and guidelines for creating and enhancing digital collection records in TMS. I have experience entering standardized collection information into TMS and attaching digital assets to TMS records. I have taught other how to enter standardized collection information into TMS and how to attached digital assets to TMS records. I have experience using a collection information management system other than TMS. None of the above. 6 Which of the following answer(s) describes your types of digital collection records you have created and enhanced? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for fine art. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for clothing and textiles. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for photographic materials. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for audiovisual materials. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for archival collections including documents, scrapbooks, manuscripts, and rare books. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for born-digital materials. I have experience creating and enhancing digital collection records for other types of artifacts not listed above (i.e., tools, machines, decorative arts). I have not performed any of the tasks above. 7 Which response best describes your experience in working with museum collection classification schema (AAT, TGN, CDWA, Nomenclature for Museum Cataloguing, etc.), assessing their value and relevance to the particulars of your museum&rsquo;s collection, and implementing enhancements to the Collections Information System (CIS)? Answer to this question is required I have experience assessing the value and relevance of museum collection classification schema for a non-Western art or history collection, and have used them to implement significant enhancements to the CIS or the standards manual. I have experience assessing the value and relevance of museum collection classification schema for a Western art or history collection, and have used them to implement significant enhancements to the CIS or the standards manual. I am familiar with various museum collection classification schema, but have limited experience in using them to implement enhancements to the CIS or standards manual. I have limited or no familiarity with various museum collection classification schema. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in training colleagues in the use of a Collections Information System (CIS)? Answer to this question is required I have systemically assessed the needs of CIS users through feedback or other means, and have developed and implemented a training program in response, providing group and individual sessions. I have assessed the needs of CIS users, and have developed and provided a limited number (3 or fewer) of training sessions. I have provided training to CIS users on an ad hoc basis. I have used a training plan developed by others to provide training to CIS users. I have assisted others in their efforts to train colleagues in the use of a CIS. I have no experience training colleagues in the use of a CIS. 9 Which of the following best describe your experience with training program for museum staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted the System Administrator with the training program for museum through individual instruction in person or by virtual access using Microsoft Teams and Zoom. I have updated cataloguing and procedural manuals to document the use of fields, data entry standards, terms, and vocabulary used in the database I have collaborated with the System Administrator to develop training curriculum tailored to overall museum needs and the specific work of individuals. I have created developing abbreviated guides, tip-sheets, and other instructional aids that help staff users with common system functions and applications. I do not have experience with training program for museum staff. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.