Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees performing building maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing elevator maintenance tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees performing elevator maintenance tasks to ensure proper completion as a team leader. I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing maintenance tasks on mechanical systems to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees performing maintenance tasks on mechanical systems to ensure proper completion as a team leader. None of the above. 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instruction regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employee job performance. Developed work improvement plans. Provided feedback to employees on methods or techniques. None of the above. 5 Select the response that best describe your highest level of elevator mechanic work. Answer to this question is required Independently responded to unusual types of elevator maintenance and repair situations. Ensured that elevator systems were operating at optimum levels. Planned, laid out, tested, adjusted, and reworked procedures to complete repair work with little or no technical assistance. Completed electro-mechanical maintenance and repair assignments as described in oral or written general instructions or work orders with appropriate blueprints, schematics, specifications, and regulatory codes. Performed elevator maintenance and repair work under close supervision. Such tasks include replacing burned-out fuses, lights, and signal systems; replacing worn brushes, bearings, armatures, bad shunts, contacts, etc. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 6 Do you have experience interpreting electrical codes to ensure the compliance of elevator wiring? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying elevator codes? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting or applying elevator codes. I reviewed elevator codes as directed by a senior employee or journeyman. I have interpreted and applied elevator codes to ensure compliance of elevator systems. 8 Which integrated digital control systems have you repaired? Answer to this question is required IMC Performa I-Control Lift-Net monitoring system IMC SCR (made up of 12 Pulse SCR technology) A digital drive unit with interface relay, printed circuit boards, capacitors, fuses, diodes, triacs, and processing algorithms Smart Rise VFMC-1000 AC None of the above 9 Please provide the name of the digital drive unit with interface relay, printed circuit boards, capacitors, fuses, diodes, triacs, and processing algorithms or other integrated digital control systems you have repaired not listed in above Question. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Which types of control circuits have you used? Answer to this question is required Parallel Reverse Self-holding Dynamic Suicide Series Series/Parallel None of the above 11 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 12 Which of the following transport equipment have you repaired, adjusted, maintained or inspected? Answer to this question is required Passenger elevators Freight elevators Hydraulic elevators Hydraulic lifts Traction elevators Climbing elevators Motorized rollup doors AC Drive elevator systems Escalators DC Drive elevator systems Cable lifts (stair, stage, orchestra, boat, scissor) None of the above 13 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above 14 Select the response that best describe your ability to identify problems, determine possible solutions, and actively work to resolve the issues. Answer to this question is required Identified and resolved standard/routine problems with electronic systems and devices through routine inspection and preventive maintenance after system/equipment failure or when updating equipment with new technologies. Identified problems with complex systems or electronic instrumentation through preventive and corrective maintenance. Operated standard test equipment to troubleshoot and repair electronic systems and devices that are well documented with wiring and schematics and factory maintenance manuals. Operated specialized test equipment to troubleshoot and repair non-standard electronic devices and systems, in addition to the troubleshooting of well documented maintenance manuals with the use of standard test equipment. I have not applied any of the problem-solving methods described above. 15 Which elevator tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Inspecting elevator machine rooms and elevators for compliance with ASME 17.1. Semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Overseeing contractors performing safety inspections and elevator repairs or refurbishments Preparing Statements of Work to repair elevators or escalators. None of the above. 16 Select the activities you have performed on the job related to safety . Answer to this question is required Written a hazard report. Written an incident report. Developed an emergency action response plan. Participated in training/drills for emergency responses. Acted quickly in emergencies to ensure worker safety. Generated safety work orders. Completed job hazard analysis (JHA). None of the above. 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.