Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in at least 2 of the following: Independently perform quality assurance inspections to ensure all assigned work is completed based on job requirements and needs of the clients. Uses computerized programs to maintain data and records (e.g., Computer-Aided Facility Management (CAFM) and TMA Systems computer software). Serves as Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Representative (COR) to ensure accurate and adequate oversight of contractor performance according to contract requirements. 2 Which of the following tasks have you completed when performing inspections? Answer to this question is required I have read and comprehended technical manuals, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete when performing inspections. I have interpreted complicated instructions for other workers in performing inspections. I have used my extensive knowledge to perform inspections. I have resolved problems involving inspections. None of the above. Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-8 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in at least 3 of the following: Provides a variety of services to the occupants of commercial buildings and senior management including supporting the daily operations of the buildings including receiving and taking immediate action to resolve complaints. Uses computerized programs to maintain data and records. Initiates inspection test procedures and makes recommendations to modify job or contract specifications for evaluating trade/contractor procedures and operations. Serves as Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Representative (COR) to ensure accurate and adequate oversight of contractor performance according to contract requirements. 2 Have you performed inspections, oversight activities, and surveying activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: All Grades 1 Which actions have you performed to ensure you understood the full nature of the customer's problem? Answer to this question is required I asked targeted questions to elicit additional information about the problem. I re-stated my understanding of the problem in my own words. I requested to met with the customer on-site to further inspect the problem. None of the above. 2 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when exchanging information, providing advice and assistance, discussing requirements and resolving problems. Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Congressional Staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Internal Peers and Employees None of the above 3 Do you have skill and experience serving demanding customers using tact and diplomacy? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have experience acting as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which response describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances in an office (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned or organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience assisting with the planning, organizing, and completion of work by staff within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience assisting with the planning, organizing, and completion of work performed by cross-functional/departmental project teams in difficult circumstances. 6 How have you conveyed, persuaded and negotiated information and ideas to others. Answer to this question is required Served as liaison between reporting units and external contacts for the purpose of interpreting instructions and information and following commitments through to completion. Prioritized and negotiated organizational needs regarding meetings, timeframes and deadlines. Exercised delegated authority to speak on behalf the supervisor regarding a variety of sensitive administrative and programmatic matters. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience using Computer Aided Facilities Management (CAFM) systems such as Maximo, TMA, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which activities have you independently performed in facility maintenance software (e.g., WebTMA)? Answer to this question is required Created work orders Reviewed work orders for accuracy Searched for and located work orders Printed work orders Closed-out work orders None of the above 9 Please select the computer software applications you have used in an office environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable None of the above 10 Which areas do you have experience inspecting to identify building problems for maintenance (e.g., lighting, cracks, leaks)? Answer to this question is required Offices/rooms Hallways Stairwells Entrances/Exits Rest rooms Parking garages Elevators None of the above 11 Which statement best describes the most complex type of building problems you have resolved through coordination with the appropriate trades shop? Answer to this question is required Basic problems (e.g., burned out light-bulbs, leaking fixtures) Intermediate problems (e.g., damaged doors/locks, HVAC malfunctions) Advanced or interdisciplinary problems (e.g., rodent infestation, emergencies such as burst pipes and electrical building blackouts) I do not have experience coordinating with trade shops to resolve building problems. 12 Which of the following activities describe your experience communicating with others verbally. Answer to this question is required Provided customer service by telephone (e.g. call center, help desk, or reception desk) Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task Explained issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization Explained complex theories or concepts in easily understood terms Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations Identified and obtained mission information, including from individuals who were reticent to respond Responded to requests for information from high ranking officials and VIPs None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience providing information to customers? Answer to this question is required I have responded to inquiries and questions about invoices and payments. I have answered general questions related to invoices and payments and/or performed follow-up work of a routine nature with vendors. I have answered general questions related to invoices and payments. I have some experience, education, and/or training but less than the levels described. None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.