Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 To qualify for the GS-13 level, you must have at least one year of full-time experience equivalent to the GS-12 level defined as supporting the full lifecycle of organizational change for complex IT initiatives, including assessing organizational readiness, conducting stakeholder analyses, developing communication and training strategies, facilitating cross-functional engagement, and supporting implementation and post-launch adoption. You must also have experience with metrics and analyzing user feedback and technology utilization, and advising senior leaders on adoption risks, organizational barriers, and recommended actions.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Develop organizational change management strategies for enterprise technology initiatives affecting multiple business units or stakeholder groups. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 3 Assess organizational readiness and identify organizational risks that could affect successful implementation of technology initiatives. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 4 Develop integrated change management plans that include stakeholder engagement, communications, training, readiness activities, and adoption support. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 5 Describe the most significant technology or organizational change initiative you have led. Explain your role, how you developed the change management strategy, the stakeholders involved, the challenges you encountered, and the outcomes achieved. Reference the position(s) listed on your resume where you gained this experience.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Advise executives, senior managers, or business leaders on organizational impacts and change strategies for technology initiatives. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 7 Conduct stakeholder analyses that identify stakeholder influence, readiness, potential resistance, and engagement strategies. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task.( I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 8 Build consensus among stakeholders with competing priorities to support successful technology implementation. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 9 Describe your approach to identifying and engaging stakeholders during an implementation. Provide an example of a project where you successfully built support among stakeholders with differing priorities or competing interests. What specific techniques did you use, and what was the result?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Develop communication strategies tailored to different stakeholder groups to support technology implementation. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job.( I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 11 Design and deliver technology training using instructor-led, virtual, self-paced, or train-the-trainer delivery methods. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance.( I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 12 Develop user guides, job aids, knowledge articles, or other learning resources that support long-term technology adoption. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 13 Organizational change practices continue to evolve with technologies such as artificial intelligence and digital collaboration platforms. Describe how you stay current with emerging trends and explain how you have incorporated new tools, techniques, or technologies into your change management or training practices. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 Develop performance measures that evaluate technology adoption, organizational readiness, user engagement, or stakeholder satisfaction. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 15 Improve organizational change management methodologies, standards, or practices based on lessons learned, organizational performance, or emerging technologies. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 16 Develop dashboards, scorecards, reports, or other methods for communicating organizational change performance to leadership. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 17 Describe how you have measured the success of a change management effort. What metrics, dashboards, or other methods did you use to evaluate adoption, user engagement, or organizational readiness? How did those results influence future decisions or improvements?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.