Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Legal Assistants assist in coordinating the workflow of a legal office with constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations are performed in a timely manner. They assist in devising new procedures that will enhance the operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines and priorities established by the Consolidated Legal Center. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed time and attendance reports according to established schedule; and/or I have ordered office and other supplies before stock depleted; and/or I have gathered data for team leader/supervisor. I have coordinated work with other offices or divisions for special projects; and/or I have assisted with the coordination of conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference material information; and/or I have made travel and lodging arrangements for conference participants. Under supervision and/or working with supervisor, I have worked on docket calendar; and/or under direction of supervisor, I have maintained logging system; and/or I have specifically contacted certain sites for information regarding conferences in order to report back to supervisor. None of the above. 3 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as FTCA claims, FOIA requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take, to compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. With direction, I have read departmental mail and decided appropriate recipient; and/or I have answered telephone and interpreted what caller needed, asking for assistance as necessary; and/or I have proofread non-technical correspondence; and/or I have written basic correspondence/e-mails identifying and correcting grammar, making corrections as needed. I have recommended specific action in response; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed assigned response by appropriate legal staff; and/or I have read, interpreted and recommended disposition of administrative claims and litigation reports. I have read incoming correspondence and decided appropriate action; and/or I have provided training on new time and attendance procedures to division timekeepers; and/or I have proofread reports or documents. None of the above. 4 Legal Assistants must possess sound written communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed basic information on form letters; and/or I have prepared response to Inmate Request to Staff Member (BP-148); and/or I have completed property inventory forms. I have prepared minutes and notes from informal gatherings; and/or I have composed and sent internal memoranda, e-mails, etc.; and/or I have typed correspondence from draft form. I have prepared reports as requested by team leader/supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature; and/or I have prepared, proofread and edited miscellaneous correspondence; and/or I have written incident reports. None of the above. 5 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general inquiries/questions; and/or I have interacted with co-workers; and/or I have given inmate work instructions. I have presented information to small group; and/or I have contacted vendor to gather information on a product; and/or I have directed callers to appropriate staff members. I have explained meal time to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have assisted the Front Lobby Officer in visitor processing; and/or I have communicated with co-workers; and/or I have answered routine questions. None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Legal Assistants coordinate the workflow of a legal office, which has constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed time and attendance reports according to an established schedule; and/or I have ordered office and other supplies before stock depleted; and/or I have gathered data for team leader/supervisor. I have coordinated work with other offices or Divisions for special projects; and/or I have assisted with the coordination of conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference material information; and/or I have made travel and lodging arrangements for conference participants. I have maintained the orderly office workflow; and/or I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conferences to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection as assigned by the team leader/supervisor; and/or I have assisted in maintaining a docket calendar, coordinating schedules with Clerks of Courts, keeping legal staff informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. None of the above. 3 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as FTCA claims, FOIA requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take and compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. With direction, I have read departmental mail and decided the appropriate recipient; and/or I have answered the telephone and interpreted what a caller needed, asking for assistance as necessary; and/or I have proofread non-technical correspondence; and/or I have written basic correspondence/e-mails identifying and correcting grammar, making corrections as needed. I have coordinated compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegal; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned any needed corrections to the originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects and/or requests. I have read incoming correspondence and decided appropriate action; and/or I have provided training on new time and attendance procedures to division timekeepers/keyers; and/or I have proofread reports or documents. None of the above. 4 Legal Assistants must possess sound written communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared minutes and notes from informal gatherings; and/or I have composed and sent internal memoranda, e-mails etc.; and/or I have typed correspondence from draft form. I have reviewed documents of a technical nature for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared an agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response. I have prepared reports as requested by team leader/supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature; and/or I have prepared, proofread and edited miscellaneous correspondence; and/or I have written incident reports. None of the above. 5 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information to a small group; and/or I have contacted a vendor to gather information on a product; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff members. I have conducted mass inmate interviews after an institution incident; and/or I have presented information to a focus group in a formal setting; and/or I have collected information and presented to the supervisor; and/or I have advised the supervisor of project status. I have answered general inquiries/questions; and/or I have interacted with co-workers; and/or I have given inmate work instructions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).