Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience in pipefitting? Answer to this question is required I have journey level experience performing pipefitting and plumbing work with minimal supervision independently making judgments and decisions regarding technical procedures and techniques on installations. I have career-related experience and training, and experience performing pipefitting/plumbing tasks under normal supervision. I have experience and training which demonstrates knowledge of pipefitting/plumbing in a limited capacity under close supervision I have elementary knowledge of pipefitting/plumbing methods and techniques as demonstrated outside of the workplace. I do not have experience doing the work of a pipefitter or plumber. 2 Select pipefitting work you performed that demonstrates your knowledge and ability. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, set up, and performed complex modifications to low and high-pressure piping systems requiring changes in layout, assembly, adjustment, and testing of parts to meet desired specifications. Installed, modified, and repaired piping systems and equipment; planned and completed the routing and placement of systems leading to the equipment; determined and placed the equipment at the proper levels and points in the system; and joined, sealed and tested the systems and equipment for proper pressure, leak-free joints, and operation. Repaired, modified, installed, and tested sections of piping systems with normal supervisory assistance. Cut, bent, assembled, and installed pipe, fittings, and fixtures in constructing and repairing low pressure piping systems such as fresh water, salt water, sewer pipe, and sanitary drain. Cut pipe, installed hangers and brackets, and replaced valve washers, worn nuts and bolts. None of the above. 3 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Steam heating Steam generation Flash and expansion tanks Condensate Vacuum Circulating pumps Radiators Sump pumps Sewage ejector pumps None of the above 4 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret pipefitting instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, technical manuals, sketches, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete requiring extensive knowledge of pipefitting terminology and symbols. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical pipefitting experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment. Followed drawings, technical manuals, and other references in making repairs and installations of piping sections or commercial and residential utility piping systems under normal supervision. None of the above. 6 Choose the statements that demonstrate your knowledge and ability regarding pipefitting layout and measurement. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of layout and pattern development by parallel line, radial line, and triangulation enabling more difficult layout and pattern work. Knowledge of shop mathematics enabling layout angles, arcs, and circles in performing work such as calculating and aligning pipes, joints, and valves; and installing proper braces and supports to control movement and vibration. Planned and laid out routing, placement, pitch, incline, and elevation of piping systems and equipment allowing for expansion and contracting. Selected the proper methods and planned work sequences for repairing and installing piping sections or to plan and layout plumbing work such as routing, placement, slant, and slope of utility, supply, and disposal systems for the distribution of sewage, water, oil, gas, and compressed air. None of the above. 7 Select the statement that best describes your ability to locate the cause of problems in pipefitting systems and equipment. Answer to this question is required Isolated and repaired unusual operational failures and malfunctions when documentation and operation knowledge are not available. Traced and located the cause of malfunctions; identified the type and extent of repairs needed; performed tests of piping systems and supporting or controlling devices; and resolved the problem. Skilled in the use of precision tools such as micrometers, feeler gauges, calipers, torque wrenches, brazing equipment, and pipe bending machines. Detected malfunctions in most low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment; determined corrective measures; and make repairs. Used tools and equipment such as dividers, grinders, reamers, pipe wrenches, hand and power pipe threaders and cutters, flanges, sliding squares, plumb bobs, mercury gauges, and hydrostatic testing equipment. Located and stopped leaks by replacing washers in fixtures; located and cleared obstructions in piping by cleaning and replacing traps and nozzles; and removed and placed worn or broken bolts, nuts, and gaskets in flange connections. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience troubleshooting steam piping, returns, fittings, fixtures, and equipment in a commercial environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience trouble shooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbook) or relied on my previous experiences to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures/documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. None of the above. 10 In which industries have you performed pipefitting work? Answer to this question is required Commercial Industrial Residential None of the above 11 Which resource documents have you interpreted and applied to perform pipefitting work? Answer to this question is required Written call assignments Building plans/floor plans Schematics Cut sheets Manufacturer`s specifications Blueprints Drawings Charts Policies and procedures None of the above 12 Do you have experience working as a team leader for employees performing pipefitting tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.