Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Do you have a willingness to learn the carpentry trade and the ability to perform the work of this position under the supervision of experienced carpenters? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 06 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Have you followed instructions to assemble and disassemble scaffolding? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the following list, select the types of woodworking products you have used on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes Solid surfaces None of the above 3 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience constructing framing, benches, partitions, frames and/or tables? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 6 Select the types of tools you have operated independently to perform carpentry activities. Answer to this question is required Measuring tools (e.g., tape measure) Basic hand tools (e.g., plane, variable speed drill, hand saw) Advanced hand tools (e.g., router, hammer drill, chop saw) Pneumatic tools (e.g., clamps, floor nailers, air sanders) Automated tools with Computer Numerical Control (CNC) (e.g., shaper, router, lathe) None of the above 7 Which materials do you have experience selecting for specific projects in order to achieve project goals? Answer to this question is required Wood/lumber Adhesives (e.g., contact adhesives, silicon) Fasteners (e.g., nails, screws) Plastics Cabinet joinery (e.g., finger joint, dowel, rabbet) Flooring Hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Wall material (e.g., drywall, metal studs) None of the above 8 Select the tools you have used to perform precise, intricate carpentry work. Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill Presses Wide Belt Sanders Sliding table saw CNC Laser None of the Above 9 Have you interpreted and closely followed oral instructions to complete a project? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which items have you read and interpreted in order to fabricate and/or install wood work? Answer to this question is required Written instructions from others (e.g., customer, supervisor) Blueprints Layout drawings and sketches Work orders Specification lists Safety information Manufacturer instructions None of the above 11 Which of the following do you have safety training in? Answer to this question is required OSHA 10 PPE Confined Space Asbestos Lead Respiratory None of the above 12 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a carpenter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to carpentry work but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have completed education or training related to carpentry and have applied to professional work and independently performed carpentry activities. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform carpentry work. I have independently performed carpentry work. None of the above 13 Select the individuals you have worked with collaboratively to complete a construction project. Answer to this question is required Electrician Plumber Painter Carpenter Mason None of the above 14 Do you have experience coordinating work on a project with other trade workers (e.g., electricians, plumbers) to ensure tasks are completed in the proper sequence? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Maximum length of 10000 characters. 15 Do you have experience performing carpentry activities (e.g., fabricating, installing, repairing woodwork) in a commercial setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Maximum length of 10000 characters. 16 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a carpenter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to carpentry but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have completed education or training related to carpentry and have applied to professional work and independently performed carpentry activities. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform carpentry activities. I have independently performed carpentry activities. None of the above. 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.