Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of domestic social policy.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles, and practices of one or more issue areas in domestic social policy. Knowledge of the history, trends and current status of one or more issue areas in including experience, knowledge, and training related to the following domestic policy and social program issues areas: 1) Children and Families issues, especially as related to low-income populations; 2) Domestic Security and Immigration, including crime policy, illicit drug control policy, border security, and domestic intelligence; 3) Education and Labor, including training and the workforce; 4) Health Insurance and Financing, including Medicare, Medicaid, Children&rsquo;s Health Insurance Program, and private health insurance; 5) Health Services, including health care service delivery, the health care workforce, and public health; and 6) Income Security, including Social Security, pensions, disability, and unemployment. Answer to this question is required Have knowledge of domestic social policy. For example, completed master’s or equivalent academic degree in a social science (economics, sociology, demography, etc.), or public policy or equivalent degree program, served as a research assistant in the public or private sector, or equivalent work experience in domestic social policy. Have knowledge of domestic social policy. For example, completed one year of graduate education in a social science (economics, demography, etc.), or public policy or equivalent degree program, interned in a research organization in the public or private sector, or equivalent work experience in domestic social policy. Have knowledge of domestic social policy. For example, completed bachelor’s degree in a social science (economics, demography, etc.), or public policy or equivalent degree program, conducted research related to domestic social policy in a professional or academic setting, or equivalent experience. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply knowledge of the analytic research process in a disciplinary area relevant to domestic social policy.** Participated in analytic research efforts pertinent to one or more disciplinary areas relevant to domestic social policy. In undertaking this research, identified a research question; conceptualized a research plan; identified and reviewed appropriate background materials; utilized appropriate methodologies to perform analyses; synthesized key findings from the research; generated and assessed alternative methods; and evaluated the consequences of choosing each alternative. Answer to this question is required Participated in performing qualitative and/or quantitative research related to a disciplinary area relevant to domestic social policy, for example, through researching data and applying relevant established techniques or methods, or playing an active role in conducting a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to a master’s thesis. Interpreted results or research for peers. Participated in performing qualitative and/or quantitative research related to a disciplinary area relevant to domestic social policy, for example, through researching data and applying relevant established techniques or methods, or playing an active role in conducting a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to research conducted for master’s level coursework. Interpreted results or research for peers. Participated in performing qualitative and/or quantitative research related to a disciplinary area relevant to domestic social policy, for example, through researching data and applying relevant established techniques or methods, or playing an active role in conducting a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to an undergraduate independent study project/senior thesis, or completing coursework. Interpreted results or research for peers. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to identify, exploit, and manipulate research resources and tools to perform research tasks pertinent to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy.* * Performed research tasks related to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy including: 1) identifying pertinent information resources; 2) researching, collecting, and compiling information; 3) designing, creating, populating, and maintaining quantitative and qualitative databases and spreadsheets; 4) summarizing key findings, research methodologies, and analytical shortcomings; 5) interpreting and evaluating data for accuracy, relevance, authoritativeness, usefulness, etc.; 6) formatting information (e.g., into written reports, tables, graphics, PowerPoint presentations) to meet targeted, well-defined research needs; and 7) processing, consolidating, and transforming data using statistical and/or econometric techniques. Answer to this question is required Applied working knowledge of research resources and tools pertinent to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy to perform ALL of the research tasks listed above for data or information of limited complexity. In addition, independently identified and resolved problems with the data; and mentored colleagues and/or instructed staff on the content, nature, and use of these data resources. Applied working knowledge research resources and tools pertinent to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy to perform MOST of the research tasks listed above for data or information of limited complexity. In addition, assisted with resolution of problems with the data; and mentored colleagues and/or instructed staff on the content, nature, and use of these data resources. Applied working knowledge of research resources and tools pertinent to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy to perform ONE of the research tasks listed above for data or information of limited complexity. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to prepare written research materials related to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy.** Produced a variety of descriptive, background, or analytical written products related to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy. Prepared summaries or abstracts of research materials and performed quality control reviews of others&rsquo; written materials. Answer to this question is required Prepared at least one research product at the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review. Examples include a master’s thesis or equivalent research product. This product was related to a discipline relevant to domestic social policy. In addition, developed summaries or reviews of materials of limited complexity; evaluated quality of analyses and publications for authoritativeness, relevance, currency, etc.; and prepared abstracts for descriptive and analytical materials of limited complexity. Performed quality control review of others’ written materials. Wrote descriptive or background material for the purpose of clarifying situations or issues in an academic or professional context. In addition, developed summaries or reviews of materials of limited complexity; evaluated quality of analyses and publications for authoritativeness, relevance, currency, etc.; and prepared abstracts for descriptive and analytical materials of limited complexity. Performed quality control review of others’ written materials Developed summaries or reviews of materials of limited complexity and evaluated quality of analyses and publications for authoritativeness, relevance, currency, etc. Performed quality control review of others’ written materials. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Collaborate. Led or participated in a research study or project requiring collaboration with colleagues. Answer to this question is required Led or participated in a collaborative research study or project. Led or participated in a component of a collaborative research study or project. Participated in a component of a collaborative research study or project. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).