Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving U.S. export licensing policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Examined and reviewed an export request and its support documentation. Developed recommendations for action on an export request. Prepared an export license request and support documentation. Provided authoritative guidance on U.S. law, regulations, policies and procedures as they relate to export licensing. Consulted intra / inter agency to obtain recommendations on an export request and resolved varying recommendations. Drafted or promulgated revised export licensing regulations, policies and procedures. Prepared and delivered training programs on export licensing. None of the above. 2 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving U.S. export compliance policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Monitored suspected or known violators to an export transaction. Conducted a review and assessment of parties to a proposed transaction to determine their `bona fides`. Conducted a review of a proposed transaction to verify end use. Prepared notifications of adverse compliance decisions on export requests or approvals. Researched and analyzed export requests to identify potential high risk transactions. Applied a `watch list` of suspected parties to an export request. Provided authoritative guidance on U.S. law, regulations, policies and procedures as they relate to export compliance. Consulted intra / inter agency to obtain recommendations on a compliance case and resolved varying recommendations. Drafted or promulgated revised compliance regulations, policies and procedures. Prepared and delivered training programs on export compliance. None of the above 3 Select the items that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have conducted surveys or made onsite visits to assess compliance. I have conducted investigations, gathered information or engaged in research to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. I have conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose compliance with the law and regulations was under review. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above 4 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 5 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 6 Select the tasks you have performed in inspecting, investigating, negotiating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance or enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of reported violations, policy exceptions, debarment decisions or other legal, regulatory or administrative actions. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Conducted onsite inspections, surveys or visits to assess compliance with laws, regulations or executive orders. Conducted investigations to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. Conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose activities have not been in compliance. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Reviewed and identified documents and other open source information sources to identify knowledge or information gaps to determine whether a violation has occurred. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 7 Select the planning and monitoring tasks you have performed in a compliance or enforcement setting: Answer to this question is required Maintained a `watch list` with regular updates, changes or additional information on individuals or companies suspected or confirmed to have violated the laws and regulations. Monitored specified individuals and companies, continually assessing the status of compliance, evaluated developments affected by compliance activities and recommended appropriate action. Developed case specific questions in preparation for an investigation. Developed and maintained a system for monitoring to ensure compliance with pertinent laws and regulations. Developed and implemented compliance or investigative strategies, plans, and/or procedures. Developed or created new tools or processes to improve a monitoring system. None of the above. 8 Identify the types of general written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Graduate or doctoral papers and theses. Formal business correspondence. Assist in preparation, editing and/or publication of reports. Administrative actions or directives. Organizational policies, procedures, and/or guidelines. Teaching instructional aids. Journal, newspaper, and/or other articles. Regional Instructions. National Instructions. Form letters. Regulations and statutes. Briefing papers for senior management. Power Point presentations. External publications (e.g., brochures, press releases, cables). None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.