Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the party or parties to whom you have provided advice on governing laws and regulations: Answer to this question is required Internal customer External customers Management Peers Subordinates None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST describes your experience determining the appropriate action needed to resolve issues and problems, and the acceptable documentation needed to ensure compliance with the intent of applicable laws and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 7 From the following list, identify the types of written products you have produced: Answer to this question is required Regulations Interpretive guidance of regulations Memoranda analyzing legal issues Legal Briefs Declarations / affidavits for use in litigation Witness examinations Decision or Action Memoranda analyzing legal issues Correspondence Statistical Reports Surrender warrants None of the above Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to write clear, concise, understandable and convincing reports? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 5 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 6 From the following list, identify the types of written products you have produced: Answer to this question is required Regulations Interpretive guidance of regulations Memoranda analyzing legal issues Legal Briefs Declarations / affidavits for use in litigation Witness examinations Decision or Action Memoranda analyzing legal issues Correspondence Statistical Reports Surrender warrants None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa and immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa and immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa and immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa issues or have been published on these subjects. 4 Indicate the extent to which you have analyzed operations, policies or procedures and made recommendations to increase operational efficiency. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing his task. 5 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to rule on complex or sensitive cases regarding the initial or continuing eligibility of applicants to receive passports under laws and regulations that govern their denial, limitation, or revocation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.