Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12:&nbsp; Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as: a) reviewing background investigation reports to determine whether the information is complete, accurate, and sufficient to support suitability, fitness, credentialing, or national security determinations; b) adjudicating personnel vetting cases across multiple domains to apply federal standards and make initial trust determinations; c) updating and maintaining personnel vetting information in automated systems (such as NBIS, eAPP, PIPS/CVS, DISS, or USAccess) to ensure accurate processing and documentation of cases; AND d) coordinating with relevant stakeholders to gather required documentation and support onboarding and continuous vetting activities. I do not possess the experience or education as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes: a) managing complex personnel vetting programs or case work to interpret federal vetting standards, resolve unusual or high-risk issues, and make independent trust determinations with minimal supervision; b) developing or updating personnel vetting policies, procedures, or quality controls to ensure compliance with requirements for the Suitability and Security Executive Agents and improve program effectiveness; c) configuring or overseeing personnel vetting system workflows (such as NBIS initiation, review, authorization, or continuous vetting functions) to support agency-wide vetting activities; AND d) representing the agency in meetings, workgroups, or interagency engagements to provide expert advice, coordinate personnel vetting activities, and support shared suitability/security initiatives. I do not possess the experience described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have provided advice and guidance to supervisors and prepared written documents for the following types of disciplinary or adverse actions. Answer to this question is required Suspensions Change to Lower Grade Reprimands Removals Medical inability to perform work Last Chance Agreement None of the above 14 I have demonstrated experience performing the following activities associated with disciplinary actions. Answer to this question is required I have counseled management on agency responsibilities for disciplinary actions. I have assisted managers with proper procedures for taking disciplinary actions. I have routinely prepared letters of counseling. I have routinely prepared letters of reprimand. I have routinely prepared proposal notices for a performance based action. I have routinely prepared decision notices for a performance based action. I have routinely prepared proposal notices for a conduct based action. I have routinely prepared decision notices for a conduct based action. None of the above. 15 I have served as a drug testing coordinator. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Regarding your ability to use analytical methods and techniques to resolve human resource management problems, please select the following items for which you been responsible. Answer to this question is required Identifying broad problem areas through situational and survey analysis, which, due to organizational factors or supervisory-employee practices, contribute to dissatisfactory and improper performance and conduct. Recommending corrections and improvements in identified problem areas and assisting in implementation of solutions. Exploring alternatives and developing constructive and coordinated solutions to complex and sensitive organizational problems. Insuring that the program is properly integrated with related human resource programs and the operating needs of the agency. None of the Above. 17 I routinely analyze and interpret regulations in the 5 CFR and OPM policies to provide authoritative guidance to employees and managers on a variety of HR issues. Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Please select each of the following personnel security activities you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Schedule investigations Designate position sensitivity Prepare letters of inquiry Adjudicate suitability or clearance determinations None of the above 19 From the following list, select all interpersonal communication skills that you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interest among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with colleagues and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 20 I have&nbsp;successfully completed the Essentials of Suitability Adjudication Program given by the Office of Personnel Management.&nbsp; If you answer yes to this question,&nbsp;you must supply the certificate of course completion with your application package.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Choose the statement that best describes the extent of your experience with preparing and executing an inquiry or investigation to obtain information for an ER or personnel security issue. Answer to this question is required I have observed interviews for the purpose of resolving issues in a background investigation or ER case. I have conducted interviews with assistance. I have conducted interviews independently to obtain required information in resolving issues in a background investigation or ER case. None of the above. 22 I have experience drafting the following written documents: Answer to this question is required Disciplinary letters Adverse action letters Suitability letters of inquiry Grievance decisions Settlement agreements HR policy documents Performance improvement plans Collective bargaining proposals I&I proposals for management None of the above 23 I have used judgment and originality to develop innovative solutions to employee relations issues where guidance is conflicting or lacking. Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Select each of the following statements that describe your ability and experience with customer service. Answer to this question is required I have regularly resolved customer problems with little to no involvement from my supervisor or higher official. I am confident in problem solving in order to resolve customer complaints. I have regularly identified procedural changes to assist my customers. I have verbal and written skills that allow me to communicate professionally with my internal and external customers. I regularly work through customer concerns with my supervisor or higher official. None of the above. 25 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 27 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 28 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).