Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the objectives you have achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants. Answer to this question is required To encourage growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing) To remove disease To improve structure To remove safety hazards To improve or maintain aesthetics None of the above 4 What types of maintenance activities did you perform to planted areas such as garden beds, landscape work, and tree plantings? Answer to this question is required Weeded planted areas by hand and with hand tools. Processed weeds by composting, bagging and removal, and burying. Watered established plants including native and exotic ground coverings, display beds, shrubs, and trees. Mowed coarse grass and ancillary grassed areas. Used hoses, motorized blowers, hand edging tools, spades, forks, rakes, hoes, brooms, knives, trowels, wheelbarrows. Cleaned structures and features. Maintained plants in healthy condition (e.g., applied fertilizer evenly). Treated dead, diseased, and damaged plants. None of the above. 5 Select the hand tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to prune or trim plants, to prepare soil for planting, etc.). Answer to this question is required Pruners Loppers Shovels Rake Hand saw Spade Action hoe or stirrup hoe Sheers Pole trimmers Trowel Pitch fork Digging fork Bulb planter Post-hole planter Machete Digging bar Backpack/hand sprayer Liquid fertilizer proportioner (e.g., Dosatron) Wheelbarrows or carts None of the above 6 Select the responses related to growing plants in a greenhouse environment in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Moving and spacing plants Watering Planting seedlings in pots Planting cuttings in pots Fertilizing Weeding Cleaning greenhouse floors Greenhouse pest control None of the above 7 Do you have a valid, unexpired pesticide license? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Select the instructions you have read and interpreted to complete gardening assignments. Answer to this question is required Equipment operation manuals Pesticide labels Fertilizer mixing instructions Manufacture instructions (for chemicals, etc.) None of the above 9 Which of the following motor vehicles do you have experience operating? Answer to this question is required Trash Packers Bucket Trucks Boom Trucks Snow Plows Salt Trucks Platform Trucks Front-End Loader Trucks Dump Trucks Vacuum Machines None of the above 10 Choose the statements that describe your driver competencies. Answer to this question is required Maneuvers vehicles in narrow and congested areas such as between buildings and other vehicles. Operates vehicles over a variety of roads and grades in all types of driving conditions. Selects and changes gears according to road and traffic conditions, speed, and vehicle requirements. Operates special purpose accessory equipment following safety procedures and precautions. Uses the power takeoff device to transfer engine power to the equipment. Manipulates a variety of controls, understands equipment gauges. Loads, distributes weight, and secures materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Pre-plans route to follow; takes in consideration clearance of underpasses, overhead power lines, weight limitations, highway restrictions, and alternate bypass routes. Makes judgments concerning turning radius, braking distance, and distance to be maintained from other vehicles. None of the above. 11 Select driver duties and responsibilities that you performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Performed general preventive maintenance and simple repairs on vehicles. Documented daily service inspections; ensured that major repairs were reported and scheduled. Operated trash packers including the operation of controls to compress truck contents and unloaded at a commercial dump. Loaded, distributed weight, and secured materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Operated trucks with snow plows equipped with a salt/sand spreader to remove snow and ice from roadways. None of the above. 12 Have you driven in adverse weather and traffic conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please describe your experience and explain the precautionary measures you took to ensure your safety as well as the safety of other persons and the protection of property. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 13 Do you have experience operating a forklift? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Are you able to lift, push, and pull heavy objects weighing 50 lbs. or more without assistance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 What&nbsp;types of recycling materials have you handled as part of your work duties? Answer to this question is required Plant material composting Paper and cardboard Plastic Hazardous waste: ink cartridges and batteries etc. None of the above 16 Select the safety activities you have performed in a professional setting on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have attended safety classes to learn safety rules, regulations, and procedures. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required (e.g., ear protection when using loud equipment). I have reminded coworkers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of others in addition to me when performing work tasks (e.g., turn off blower while pedestrians pass). I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. I have trained others on proper equipment handling and other safety techniques to perform work assignments. None of the above. 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.