Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience in pipefitting/plumbing? Answer to this question is required I have journey level experience performing pipefitting and plumbing work independently. I am extremely knowledgeable and skilled in complex methods of working with piping and making equipment and fitting connections, including soldered, screwed, flanged, clamped and other mechanical joints. I have experience working from blueprints and sketches. I have journey level experience performing pipefitting and plumbing work with minimal supervision independently making judgments and decisions regarding technical procedures and techniques on installations. I have career-related experience and training, and experience performing pipefitting/plumbing tasks under normal supervision. I have experience and training which demonstrates knowledge of pipefitting/plumbing in a limited capacity under close supervision I do not have experience doing the work of a pipefitter or plumber. 2 This position requires pipe welder certification. A Classification of 6G preferred but not need. &nbsp; Do you have a pipe welder certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining plumbing/piping systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of plumbing/piping systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with maintaining plumbing/piping systems under direct supervision from others. I have independently maintained plumbing/piping systems. I have trained others on the procedures for performing plumbing/piping work. None of the above. 4 Do you have&nbsp;experience using an electronic Building Automation System (BAS) to remotely operate, monitor and manage commercial plumbing systems to include pumps, heaters, valves, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. 5 Select all statements in which you have experience, demonstrating your ability to work independently, make decisions, plan operations, show job responsibility, and exercise initiative in the performance of pipefitting work. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed complex pipefitting problems and arrived at an effective solution. Independently planned and performed work involving the installation, modification, and repair of new and existing low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment. Independently traced various malfunction indications through the systems to locate the source of the deficiency; analyzed and resolved the problem. Aligned piping sections, made proper connections, changed motorized valves, packed valves, connected fixtures including utility fixtures. Shut down or sectioned off boiler piping systems, operating controls, pumps, and related equipment in order to complete pipefitting tasks. Repaired leaks following oral or written instructions, supplemented by blueprints or other technical information. None of the above. 6 Which pipefitting and/or plumbing tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Cutting pipe Threading pipe Selecting the correct pipe size Soldering pipe joints or hubs Snaking a clogged drain Installing plumbing fixtures Replacing plumbing fixtures Installing/replacing valves Troubleshooting automatic flush toilet valves Clearing drain traps Maintain water tanks None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to backflow devices? Answer to this question is required I understand how backflow devices function but do not have hands-on experience with them. I assisted more senior workers with installing backflow devices. I installed backflow devices and tested the assembly. None of the above. 8 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Steam heating Steam generation Flash and expansion tanks Condensate Vacuum Circulating pumps Radiators Sump pumps Sewage ejector pumps None of the above 9 Which layout tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 10 In which industries have you performed pipefitting and plumbing work? Answer to this question is required Commercial Industrial Residential None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting and plumbing problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting and plumbing problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting and plumbing problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting and plumbing problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting and plumbing issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting and plumbing problems. 12 Select the statement that best describes your ability to locate the cause of problems in pipefitting and plumbing systems and equipment. Answer to this question is required Isolated and repaired unusual operational failures and malfunctions when documentation and operation knowledge are not available. Traced and located the cause of malfunctions; identified the type and extent of repairs needed; performed tests of piping systems and supporting or controlling devices; and resolved the problem. Skilled in the use of precision tools such as tee drills, roll groovers, calipers, torque wrenches, brazing equipment and pipe bending machines. Detected malfunctions in piping or plumbing systems and equipment; determined corrective measures; and make repairs. Used tools and equipment such as dividers, grinders, reamers, pipe wrenches, hand and power pipe threaders and cutters, flanges, sliding squares, plumb bobs, mercury gauges, and hydrostatic testing equipment. Located and stopped leaks by replacing washers in fixtures; located and cleared obstructions in piping by cleaning and replacing traps and nozzles; and removed and placed worn or broken bolts, nuts, and gaskets in flange connections. None of the above. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.