Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Do you have experience performing the following duties: collections management including object care, handling, exhibition development and installation, object movement and tracking, packing, shipping and storage; and inventory management, or other experience related to the position to be filled? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following types of rules and regulations are you able to interpret and follow? Answer to this question is required Retention and maintenance of museum collection objects Shipment and transport of museum collection objects Acquisition or accession of museum collections Disposal or de-accession of museum collections None of the above 4 Have you designed and constructed customized containers for shipping/storing museum collections Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required asbestos/carcinogenic materials radioactive materials hazardous chemicals flammable chemicals pesticides biohazards heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above 6 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing museum handling apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 7 Which of the following tools have you used on a regular basis in personal or professional settings? Answer to this question is required Table saw Circular saw Band saw Reciprocating saw Drill press Sander Router Planer Pneumatic nail / staple gun Other stationary tools or power hand tools I have not used stationary tools or power hand tools on a regular basis 8 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 9 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills I have no experience/training performing as a part of a safety program 10 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 11 Which of the following examples of collections documentation practices have you performed as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed shelf surveys / inventories Accurately recorded information using automated systems Adhered to data standards for collections management Assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records Independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 12 Do you have experience using TMS (The Museum System) to create object packages and update object location records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your highest level of responsibility in preparing written work documents? Answer to this question is required I contributed small pieces (e.g., parts of report sections) for incorporation and review I contributed larger pieces (e.g., report sections) for incorporation and review I reviewed the work of other writers for appropriate content and format I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for portions of final documents I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for entire documents None of the above 14 Please select each prevention and recovery activity you have participated in for a previous job Answer to this question is required Conducted heritage preservation surveys Prepared documentation for AAM certification Prepared disaster preparedness plans Advised architects and engineers regarding condition requirements for collections storage Managed disaster recovery projects Established conservation programs and schedules Conducted conservation needs assessments I have not conducted any of the above activities 15 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Waiver requests Training/instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Research and/or development grant proposals Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Executive summaries Newsletter articles Other written communications None of the above 16 Do you have experience communicating through written work findings and concepts to technical and/or non-technical audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Do you have experience performing the following duties: collections management including object care, handling, exhibition development and installation, object movement and tracking, packing, shipping and storage; and inventory management, or other experience related to the position to be filled? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following types of rules and regulations are you able to interpret and follow? Answer to this question is required Retention and maintenance of museum collection objects Shipment and transport of museum collection objects Acquisition or accession of museum collections Disposal or de-accession of museum collections None of the above 4 Have you designed and constructed customized containers for shipping/storing museum collections Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required asbestos/carcinogenic materials radioactive materials hazardous chemicals flammable chemicals pesticides biohazards heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above 6 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing museum handling apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 7 Which of the following tools have you used on a regular basis in personal or professional settings? Answer to this question is required Table saw Circular saw Band saw Reciprocating saw Drill press Sander Router Planer Pneumatic nail / staple gun Other stationary tools or power hand tools I have not used stationary tools or power hand tools on a regular basis 8 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills None of the above 9 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 10 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills I have no experience/training performing as a part of a safety program 11 Which of the following vehicles have you operated for the purpose of transporting passengers or cargo? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Buses under 26,000 gross vehicle weight. Trucks under 26,000 gross vehicle weight. 15 passengers vans. Sedans. Vans. Flat beds. Heavy duty box trucks. Buses over 26,000 gross vehicle weight. Trucks over 26,000 gross vehicles weight. Auto tilt back wrecker. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 13 Which of the following examples of collections documentation practices have you performed as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed shelf surveys / inventories Accurately recorded information using automated systems Adhered to data standards for collections management Assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records Independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 14 Do you have experience using TMS (The Museum System) to create object packages and update object location records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following best describes your highest level of responsibility in preparing written work documents? Answer to this question is required I contributed small pieces (e.g., parts of report sections) for incorporation and review I contributed larger pieces (e.g., report sections) for incorporation and review I reviewed the work of other writers for appropriate content and format I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for portions of final documents I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for entire documents None of the above 16 Considering the position for which you are applying, which of the following options best represents your level of education and experience? Answer to this question is required I have not studied or worked in this field before I have taken undergraduate or equivalent courses in this field I have an undergraduate degree with a major related to this field I have had some graduate course work in this field I have a graduate degree related to this field I have taken undergraduate or equivalent courses in this field and I have related work experience I have an undergraduate degree with a major related to this field and I have related work experience I have had some graduate course work in this field and I have related work experience I have a graduate degree related to this field and I have related work experience None of the above 17 Please select each prevention and recovery activity you have participated in for a previous job Answer to this question is required Conducted heritage preservation surveys Prepared documentation for AAM certification Prepared disaster preparedness plans Advised architects and engineers regarding condition requirements for collections storage Managed disaster recovery projects Established conservation programs and schedules Conducted conservation needs assessments I have not conducted any of the above activities 18 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Waiver requests Training/instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Research and/or development grant proposals Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Executive summaries Newsletter articles Other written communications None of the above 19 Do you have experience communicating through written work findings and concepts to technical and/or non-technical audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which of the following reflects your experience in project management? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have led the planning, organization, and execution of projects with multiple components. I have developed and monitored complex project schedules with multiple, simultaneous workflows and deliverables. I have developed and monitored project budgets. I have been responsible for project procurement. I have resolved conflicts and differences among project/team members. I have managed projects and/or teams with staff from outside organizations. I have written reports for management review and approval. None of the above. 21 How much experience do you have in creating and adhering to program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have independently created and adhered to program budgets. I have collaborated on creating and adhering to program budgets. I have adhered to program budgets. I have never created a program budget. Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Do you have experience performing the following duties: collections management including object care, handling, exhibition development and installation, object movement and tracking, packing, shipping and storage; and inventory management, or other experience related to the position to be filled? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following types of rules and regulations are you able to interpret and follow? Answer to this question is required Retention and maintenance of museum collection objects Shipment and transport of museum collection objects Acquisition or accession of museum collections Disposal or de-accession of museum collections None of the above 4 Do you have experience managing the preservation and/or restoration projects related to aviation, space or industrial objects; and providing guidance to safeguard aeronautical artifacts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you designed and constructed customized containers for shipping/storing museum collections Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required asbestos/carcinogenic materials radioactive materials hazardous chemicals flammable chemicals pesticides biohazards heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above 7 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing museum handling apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 8 Which of the following resources have you used in past work to handle aircraft that are constructed of various materials? Answer to this question is required Equipment manuals Technical publications Personal contacts Archival documents Catalog records Photographs Log book for airplane Mechanics textbooks FAA publications None of the above 9 Which of the following tools have you used on a regular basis in personal or professional settings? Answer to this question is required Table saw Circular saw Band saw Reciprocating saw Drill press Sander Router Planer Pneumatic nail / staple gun Other stationary tools or power hand tools I have not used stationary tools or power hand tools on a regular basis 10 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills None of the above 11 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 12 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills I have no experience/training performing as a part of a safety program 13 Which of the following vehicles have you operated for the purpose of transporting passengers or cargo? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Buses under 26,000 gross vehicle weight. Trucks under 26,000 gross vehicle weight. 15 passengers vans. Sedans. Vans. Flat beds. Heavy duty box trucks. Buses over 26,000 gross vehicle weight. Trucks over 26,000 gross vehicles weight. Auto tilt back wrecker. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 15 Which of the following describes your experience working collaboratively on museum committees? Answer to this question is required I have served as the chairperson for a museum committee and facilitated discussion on key issues by committee members. I have written and submitted reports based on committee findings. I have served on a committee and participated in discussions and report writing. I have assisted members of a committee through note taking and conducting surveys. I have not served on a committee. 16 Which of the following examples of collections documentation practices have you performed as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed shelf surveys / inventories Accurately recorded information using automated systems Adhered to data standards for collections management Assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records Assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records Independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 17 Do you have experience using TMS (The Museum System) to create object packages and update object location records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of responsibility in preparing written work documents? Answer to this question is required I contributed small pieces (e.g., parts of report sections) for incorporation and review I contributed larger pieces (e.g., report sections) for incorporation and review I reviewed the work of other writers for appropriate content and format I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for portions of final documents I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for entire documents None of the above 19 Considering the position for which you are applying, which of the following options best represents your level of education and experience? Answer to this question is required I have not studied or worked in this field before I have taken undergraduate or equivalent courses in this field I have an undergraduate degree with a major related to this field I have had some graduate course work in this field I have a graduate degree related to this field I have taken undergraduate or equivalent courses in this field and I have related work experience I have an undergraduate degree with a major related to this field and I have related work experience I have had some graduate course work in this field and I have related work experience I have a graduate degree related to this field and I have related work experience None of the above 20 Please select each prevention and recovery activity you have participated in for a previous job Answer to this question is required Conducted heritage preservation surveys Prepared documentation for AAM certification Prepared disaster preparedness plans Advised architects and engineers regarding condition requirements for collections storage Managed disaster recovery projects Established conservation programs and schedules Conducted conservation needs assessments I have not conducted any of the above activities 21 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Waiver requests Training/instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Research and/or development grant proposals Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Executive summaries Newsletter articles Other written communications None of the above 22 Do you have experience communicating through written work findings and concepts to technical and/or non-technical audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Which of the following describes your ability to build consensus and facilitate cooperative and collaborative relationships? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have strong leadership, teamwork, and interpersonal skills and/or experience in managing complex projects and working collaboratively with diverse individuals and groups. I have experience working with and/or leading multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have lead and facilitated collaborative teams and relationships with required stakeholders. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. None of the above. 24 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, and development. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management. I have experience serving as a liaison. I do not have related experience. 25 How much experience do you have in creating and adhering to program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have independently created and adhered to program budgets. I have collaborated on creating and adhering to program budgets. I have adhered to program budgets. I have never created a program budget. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.