Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to manage projects. ** Led or played a key role in projects related to events, conferences, and outreach, and in doing so, performed the following tasks: (1) defined the project scope, resources, and estimated timelines; (2) developed a project plan that included reasonable, achievable, and measurable project tasks; (3) established and maintained schedules; (4) controlled and completed project deliverables; (5) adjusted priorities to address changing requirements or circumstances; (6) resolved conflicts and differences in stakeholder, team, and management expectations; and (7) reviewed accomplishments and documented lessons learned. Answer to this question is required Led SEVERAL projects differing in scope, and performed ALL OF THE ABOVE tasks for large, complex, enterprise-wide projects. Led or played a key role in SEVERAL projects, and performed FIVE OF THE ABOVE tasks for complex, departmental/divisional projects. Led or played a key role in A SINGLE project and performed FIVE OF THE ABOVE tasks for division-wide or workgroup-wide projects. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze problems and make recommendations. ** Anticipated and/or defined problems or issues that may impact the performance or productivity of a unit, division or organization; gathered and interpreted information needed to assess the issue(s); in consultation with stakeholders, developed and evaluated potential solutions and made recommendations for actions. Answer to this question is required Regularly ANTICIPATED, DEFINED, ASSESSED, AND RECOMMENDED SOLUTIONS to multifaceted problems with AGENCY/ORGANIZATION-WIDE impact on productivity, performance, or efficiency. Regularly ASSESSED AND RECOMMENDED solutions to problems with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of the DEPARTMENT/OFFICE. These problems were anticipated and identified by management. Regularly ASSESSED AND RECOMMENDED solutions to problems with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of the WORK GROUP. These problems were anticipated and identified by management. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to conduct consultation and liaison activities. ** Served as a principal advisor to senior managers, line managers, and supervisors in an agency/organization overseeing and coordinating a variety of complex or specialized projects and programs. This included: 1) clarifying routine, non-routine, and complex policy questions; 2) working closely with managers to coordinate congressional programming and outreach; 3) representing an organizational unit or overall agency/organization on agency/organization-wide teams, task forces and or committees; 4) coordinating interdivisional outreach efforts; 5) participating as a member of various management teams providing support to an agency/organization&rsquo;s top level managers: and 6) preparing and delivering oral presentations or briefings to various offices, such as to internal managers. Answer to this question is required As part of regular work duties, performed ALL of the activities above for senior executives and managers in an agency/organization. As part of regular work duties, performed AT LEAST FIVE of the activities above for senior executives and managers in an agency/organization. As part of regular work duties, performed AT LEAST FOUR of the activities above for senior executives and managers in an agency/organization. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 9 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).