Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Correctional Systems Specialist must be able to converse effectively with all types of people internal to the agency such as Central Office and Regional Administrators, Institutional Managers and Supervisors and line staff in various program related areas. He/she will be required to communicate with judicial and congressional contacts as called upon.From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a representative of the agency, given a presentation to civic or community organizations; and/or I have communicated with federal officials such as U.S. Probation or U.S. Marshals regarding inmate cases; and/or I have provided formal training to officials outside the agency; and/or I have testified in both state and federal court as an expert witness in areas associated with sentencing and confinement; and/or I have responded to sensitive telephone inquiries initiated by federal, state, or local authorities and the general public. I have prepared and presented a briefing during an institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings; and/or I have interviewed staff and inmates while investigating administrative and disciplinary incidents; and/or I have directed a panel interviewing applicants; and/or I have interviewed employees while investigating an incident. I have communicated with others while involved with community-based groups; and/or I have presented at recall explaining a new procedure; and/or I have discussed reports/procedures at department meetings; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates or inmates on minor issues. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Systems Specialist must have technical writing skills to respond to all correspondence regardless of the signature authority. He/she prepares correspondence pertaining to sensitive and difficult correctional program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memo for interdepartmental staff regarding procedural changes; and/or I have developed an operational review report which included recommendations for procedural changes; and/or I have developed/edited annual training lesson plans or equivalent; and/or I have written short summaries/articles for local institutional distribution. I have written memo for department heads explaining newly established procedures; and/or I have updated information for interagency operations; and/or I have served on a taskforce with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs/presentations to department heads; and/or I have written short summaries/articles regarding offender issues for the Sallyport/division/agency-specific newsletter. I have compiled, written and edited information from various sources into a report for Executive Staff; and/or I have composed correspondence directed to inmates with special security concerns; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have written responses to Government Accountability Office, Office of Inspector General, and other external requests, particularly as they relate to Correctional Systems issues; and/or I have prepared technical training manuals for non-technical users utilizing various formats (i.e., reports, spreadsheets, graphs, memos, etc.); and/or I have ensured proper documentation was available to support findings/recommendations; initiated complex written documents for administrative remedy, Congressional/Judicial requests. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Systems Specialist will be required to interpret and apply Correctional Systems policies and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided informal training to new department staff or co-workers; and/or I have made recommendation to improve an existing process or program; and/or I have participated on an operational review/program review/staff assist visit by providing corrective action for deficiencies; and/or I have instructed co-worker on preparing an inmate movement manifest, processing incoming inmate mail, compiling and Judgement and Commitment File, in accordance with policy. I have reviewed and referred to policy when reviewing an Instate Agreement on Detainers (IAD) or a Residential Reentry Center (RRC) referral; and/or I have followed policies and procedures to maintain security of an institution; and/or I have conducted inspections of inmate mail and property; and/or I have completed Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM) certification. I have served as a technical witness/subject-matter-expert (SME) to explain or justify a correctional policy/procedure during a hearing; and/or I have interpreted/applied policy in relation to administrative remedies; and/or I have reviewed key indicators and other information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations and made recommendations accordingly; and/or I have updated operations memorandums/institution supplements as directed by changes in law. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Systems Specialist is responsible for being knowledgeable in a variety of Correctional Systems areas. He/she must be able to plan, coordinate and evaluate programs necessary in a Correctional Systems Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected and analyzed data for statistical analysis of programs for evaluation and impact on Correctional Programs; and/or I have, as a resource person, assisted institutions in matters of sentence computations, legal and mail issues, and training; and/or I have evaluated program effectiveness and made recommendations to management on a variety of Correctional Programs functions; and/or I have evaluated and analyzed unique situations/issues in order to identify methods to resolve/advise on issues related to case/unit management/correctional systems objectives. I have audited complex and non-complex sentence computations for accuracy or when responding to administrative remedies or other inmate correspondence; and/or I have ensured detainers were processed properly under the provisions of the Interstate Agreement on Detainers Act; and/or I have discussed relevant areas of the U.S. Code and Code of Federal Regulations with upper-level management; and/or I have prepared a response to a records related administrative remedy; and/or I have trained new staff in a technical area of Correctional Systems. I have conducted regular reviews of institution supplements/policy for a Correctional Systems Department; and/or I have ensured all court documentation is forwarded to the Designation and Computation Center (DSCC) upon an inmate’s return from court; and/or I have ensured incoming publication rejections are completed timely, consistently, and in accordance with federal regulations) I have provided advisory and informational services to the U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Courts and other correctional and public officials on a wide range of Correctional Systems issues; and/or I have maintained an existing system of internal controls to ensure all functions of the department met program requirements; and/or I have prepared responses to Program Review findings and recommended courses of corrective action; and/or I have effectively supervised or directed the functions of subordinate staff to maintain the security of a Correctional Systems Department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 5 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).