Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 I have read the education requirement(s) listed for this vacancy and upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Ability to perform product development project management work.** Developed, modified, monitored, &amp; evaluated project plans &amp; time‐phased schedules for assigned product development projects. As a recognized expert, works with other functional managers &amp; SMEs to identify requirements; write &amp; review specifications; identify costs; &amp; serve as a technical specialist for all aspects of the product development life cycle. This includes the following activities: 1) functions as the Product Owner &amp; participated in meetings including requirements analysis, specification development, preliminary &amp; critical design reviews, &amp; system integration tests, 2) evaluates project requirements/goals, 3) assesses risks/initiates risk management efforts, 4) reviews product designs to ensure successful product migration &amp; integration with other systems, &amp; 5) establishes budget priorities, troubleshoots development processes &amp; identifies changes needed for improvement of product development process. Answer to this question is required Served as a Project Engineer/Manager for a large organization or agency. Performed ALL of the above tasks in support of product development project management work for a major program and/or operation. Served as a Project Engineer/Manager for a large organization or agency. Performed FOUR (4) of the above tasks in support of product development project management work for a major program and/or operation. Served as a Project Engineer/Manager for an organization or agency. Performed THREE (3) of the above tasks in support of product development project management work for a major program and/or operation. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of the principles, methods, and techniques of electronics/computer engineering.** Applies the principles, methods, and techniques of electronics/computer engineering with an in‐depth knowledge of complex computer‐based systems, commercially available accessible/assistive technology, and consumer electronics technology to support the analysis, design, and development of products for the delivery of the NLS braille and talking book programs. Provides technical, administrative and project management leadership in research and development activities in the area of accessible technology and systems for delivery of the NLS braille and talking book programs. Serves as the subject matter expert in software design for embedded, mobile computing, and other consumer electronic systems capable of digital media playback, search and discovery, storage, and streaming via the internet, as well as an authority or consultant in the fields of embedded, mobile, and accessibility technologies. Answer to this question is required As a subject matter expert in software design for embedded systems, mobile computing systems, and other consumer electronic systems, provided in-depth knowledge of systems engineering to include the business, functional and technical layers of product development for a major operation or program with national scope. Provided overall leadership and direction to pioneering development efforts in achieving new products with previously unattainable capabilities and characteristics. As a subject matter expert in software design for embedded systems, mobile computing systems, and other consumer electronic systems, provided in-depth knowledge of systems engineering to include the business, functional and technical layers of product development for a major operation or program with regional scope. Was a key member in pioneering development efforts in achieving new products with previously unattainable capabilities and characteristics. As a subject matter expert in software design for embedded systems, mobile computing systems, and other consumer electronic systems, provided in-depth knowledge of systems engineering to include the business, functional and technical layers of product delivery for a major operation or program with local scope. Worked as part of a team to pioneer development efforts in achieving new products with previously unattainable capabilities and characteristics. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to develop embedded and Linux based software.** Developed software for Linux based platforms for embedded and desktop applications. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) worked with Linux kernel, device drivers, peripherals etc., read hardware schematics and troubleshot hardware related issues, 2) developed expertise in multi-threaded programming, network sockets, pipes, inter process communications, web servers, databases, graphical user interface, etc., 3) programmed using C, C++, Java, Python and other modern programming languages, 4) developed good understanding of encryption algorithms and open-source crypto libraries as applicable to software programming, and 5) worked with lab instruments such as emulators, logic analyzer, debuggers, etc. Answer to this question is required As a recognized technical subject matter expert, performed ALL of the above tasks in support of product design and development for a major program and/or operation. As a recognized technical subject matter expert, performed FOUR (4) of the above tasks in support of product design and development for a major program and/or operation. As a recognized technical subject matter expert, performed THREE (3) of the above tasks in support of product design and development for a major program and/or operation. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Knowledge of product prototype and proof-of-concept development. Participated in inter‐disciplinary product engineering design, development, &amp; integration activities in a broad scope of technologies. Integrated prototype &amp; proof-of-concept products with other systems in a development environment for the analysis of the performance &amp; impact on existing systems. Analyzed requirements, developed strategies, &amp; implemented actions involving highly complex technical problems. Designed development of software in support of products used to fulfill organization mission objectives. Created systems diagrams &amp; wrote, modified, &amp; debugs source code for applications software/computer products. Applied latest technology to create products for reading, searching, &amp; browsing a library collection of audio &amp; braille books. Followed project guidelines &amp; strategies that require innovation &amp; leading-edge technology. Documented unknown conditions, resolves critical problems, or develops new algorithms. Answer to this question is required Has extensive knowledge of product prototype and proof-of-concept development activities in a broad scope of technologies. Served as a technical authority involving highly complex technical problems, including those that apply to controversial or unusual mobile computing platforms, embedded computer systems, edge-computing systems, and cloud‐based systems. Has designed AND/OR directed the development of product prototype/proof-of-concept for reading, searching, and browsing a library collection of audio and braille books for use in major programs with national scope. Has some knowledge of product prototype and proof-of-concept development activities in a broad scope of technologies. Served as a technical authority involving highly complex technical problems, including those that apply to controversial or unusual mobile computing platforms, embedded computer systems, edge-computing systems, and cloud‐based systems. Has designed AND/OR directed the development of product prototype/proof-of-concept for reading, searching, and browsing a library collection of audio and braille books for use in major programs with regional scope. Has limited knowledge of product prototype and proof-of-concept development activities in a broad scope of technologies. Served as a technical authority involving highly complex technical problems, including those that apply to controversial or unusual mobile computing platforms, embedded computer systems, edge-computing systems, and cloud‐based systems. Has designed OR directed the development of product prototype/proof-of-concept in support of products used in major programs with national or regional scope. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to provide management and contractor oversight for product development projects. Responsible for managing the contract/acquisition process to completion and provided guidance/direction to contractors to ensure performance met established procedures, project specifications, and program requirements including the following: 1) developing statements of work, acquisition packages, market research reports, 2) performing technical evaluations of proposals, 3) developing contract award recommendation memos, 4) serving as a contracting officers representative (COR), 5) monitoring the status of contract performance, costs of work orders and reviewing price quotes and invoices, 6) providing technical oversight, 7) planning and coordinating the work of contractors and use of materials on projects, 8) establishing work priorities, 9) reviewing the quantity and quality of work performed by contractors, and 10) conducting regular status meetings to ensure project timelines are maintained. Answer to this question is required Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, managed implementation of necessary changes, and provided other assistance and direction to all participants on product development related projects including ALL of the duties listed above. Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, or identified and referred problems to appropriate parties, and assisted in coordinating routine product development related projects including EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the duties listed above. Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, or identified and referred problems to appropriate parties, and assisted in coordinating routine product development related projects including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the duties listed above. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked collaboratively and developed professional relationships with a wide variety of individuals internal and external to the agency/organization (staff at all levels, management officials, vendors, stakeholders, contractors, and the general public) to accomplish program goals and resolve problems and issues. This included actively seeking input and contributing one's own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Independently and actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish HIGHLY COMPLEX, mission-critical activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND/OR EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines WITHIN ONE’S OWN DIVISION or ORGANIZATION to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. None of the above. 15 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 17 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).