Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the rules and regulations related to human resources compensation, personnel processing, benefits and leave in the Federal Service. ** Provided Federal advice, guidance, and subject matter expertise on compensation policies, rules, and regulations in the following areas: 1) pay administration and compensation, 2) personnel and payroll processing, 3) benefits administration, and 4) leave administration. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, served as a Human Resources Specialist independently reviewing, interpreting, evaluating, and advising on ALL aspects of complex Federal rules and regulations in the areas of compensation, personnel processing, benefits, and leave administration. Served as the agency's technical authority, providing authoritative guidance on difficult or precedent-setting issues and ensuring compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies. As a primary job responsibility, served as a Human Resources Specialist reviewing, interpreting, evaluating, and advising on THREE (3) of the following areas of Federal rules and regulations: 1) pay administration and compensation, 2) personnel and payroll processing, 3) benefits administration, and 4) leave administration. As one of the job responsibilities, served as a Human Resources Specialist reviewing, interpreting, evaluating, and advising on ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the following areas of Federal rules and regulations: 1) pay administration and compensation, 2) personnel and payroll processing, 3) benefits administration, and 4) leave administration. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to research and analyze human resources rules and regulations to provide advice and assistance. ** Researched and analyzed various Federal human resources rules and regulations to render advice and assistance. This includes: 1) Federal regulations and rules, 2) agency regulations and guidelines, 3) payroll and personnel directives, 4) bargaining unit contracts and agreements, 5) policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied ALL of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to resolve complex or unusual issues, provide authoritative guidance to staff and management and develop recommendations affecting agency operations. As a primary job responsibility, researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to provide advice and assistance on a variety of personnel actions and issues. As one of the job responsibilities, researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to provide advice and assistance on routine personnel actions and issues. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of automated personnel and payroll data systems. ** Applied knowledge of automated personnel/payroll systems in order to process and correct personnel and payroll actions such as 1) payroll systems (e.g., NFC, EPIC, PMSO, and SPPS), 2) web-based timekeeping systems (e.g., GovTA), and 3) human resources information systems (e.g., EmpowHR, PeopleSoft, SBM). Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently demonstrated extensive experience using ALL of the above automated personnel and payroll systems to process and correct complex personnel and payroll actions, resolve system-related issues, provide technical guidance to management and staff, and serve as the organization's technical authority for automated personnel and payroll processing. As a primary job responsibility, demonstrated extensive experience using two (2) of the above automated personnel and payroll systems to process and correct personnel and payroll actions and provide guidance to customers and staff. As one of the job responsibilities, demonstrated extensive experience using one (1) of the above automated personnel and payroll systems to process and correct routine personnel and payroll actions. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of Federal retirement rules, regulations, processes, and related employee benefits. ** Applied knowledge of Federal retirement rules, regulations, processes, and related employee benefits to review and process retirement and disability applications, including death cases; and provide counseling to Library management and employees on annuity estimates, related benefits including health insurance and life insurance. Provide expert knowledge regarding pertinent laws, regulation and processes involving benefits programs, but not limited to Thrift Savings Plans (TSP), Social Security, Medicare, and flexible spending accounts. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience and applied EXTENSIVE knowledge of Federal retirement rules, regulations, processes and related employee benefits in reviewing and processing COMPLEX retirement and disability applications, including death cases. (Complex cases can involve missing or incomplete service records, court orders, unpaid deposits or re-deposits, unidentified beneficiaries or contested benefits.) Provided counseling to management and employees on annuity estimates and related benefits including health insurance, and life insurance. Provide expert knowledge regarding pertinent laws, regulation and processes involving benefits programs, but not limited to Thrift Savings Plans (TSP), Social Security, Medicare, and flexible spending accounts. Has experience and applied WORKING knowledge of Federal retirement rules, regulations, processes and related employee benefits in reviewing and processing ROUTINE retirement and disability applications, including death cases. (Routine cases are those that do not involve missing or incomplete service records, court orders, unpaid deposits or redeposits, unidentified beneficiaries or contested benefits.) Provided counseling to management and employees on annuity estimates and related benefits, including health insurance and life insurance. Provide limited knowledge regarding pertinent laws, regulation and processes involving benefits programs, but not limited to Thrift Savings Plans (TSP), Social Security, Medicare, and flexible spending accounts. Has experience and applied WORKING knowledge of Federal retirement rules, regulations, processes in independently reviewing and processing ROUTINE retirement and disability applications, including death cases; and provided counseling to management and employees on annuity estimates. (Routine cases are those that do not involve missing or incomplete service records, court orders, unpaid deposits or redeposits, unidentified beneficiaries or contested benefits. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide customer service. Provided customer service by creating an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation is evident to customers by 1) providing timely and accurate guidance, 2) maintaining professionalism even in contentious situations, 3) meeting commitments to customers on time and keeping them informed, 4) seeking and using customer feedback, and 5) handling complaints effectively. Answer to this question is required As a primary contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, independently provided customer service by demonstrating ALL of the above customer service practices while resolving complex or sensitive human resources issues, advising management officials, and serving as the organization's technical authority on customer service matters within the assigned program area. As a primary contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, provided customer service by demonstrating THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above customer service practices while advising customers on a variety of human resources matters. As a contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, provided customer service by demonstrating ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above customer service practices while assisting customers with routine human resources inquiries and actions. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, and understandable written text in English following the basic tenets of composition and analysis, including: 1) reports, 2) memos, 3) presentations, and 4) emails to document work status, provide information, and promote new programs or processes. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently prepared ALL of the above written communications to address complex human resources issues, provide authoritative guidance, develop recommendations, and communicate new or revised policies, procedures, and program requirements to management and employees. As a primary job responsibility, prepared three (3) or four (4) of the above written communications to document work, provide information, and communicate human resources policies, procedures, or program requirements. As one of the job responsibilities, prepared one (1) or two (2) of the above written communications to document work status, provide information, or communicate routine human resources matters. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).