Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following describes your level of education and administrative, clerical or paralegal experience in a court or law firm managing and/or tracking cases? Answer to this question is required I have a high school diploma or equivalent, plus five (5) years of administrative, clerical or paralegal experience in a court or law firm managing and/or tracking cases. I have an associate’s degree, plus three (3) years of administrative, clerical or paralegal experience in a court or law firm managing and/or tracking cases. I have a bachelor’s degree, plus one (1) year of administrative, clerical or paralegal experience in a court or law firm managing and/or tracking cases. I have a high school diploma and three years of customer service experience. None of the above. 2 Which of the following describes your experience with the Americans with Disabilities Act? Answer to this question is required I am not familiar with the Act. I know the Act exists, but must receive advice and decisions from subject matter experts. I have a working knowledge of the Act, but must consult with subject matter experts for their interpretation before making a decision. I routinely interpret the Act, and may consult with peers when making a decision. I routinely interpret the Act, and am relied upon to provide guidance to others. 3 Which statement most closely reflects the level of supervision you currently receive when completing work assignments? Answer to this question is required I perform my work independently and train/assist others as a consultant or expert. I perform my work independently but do not serve as a consultant or expert. I perform the routine aspects of my work independently, but refer complex issues to my supervisor or a senior employee for review. Most of my work requires close supervision. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience providing customer service in a legal environment, court or community service agency? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience providing customer service in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have been trained in providing customer service but have not performed this activity in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have identified customer needs and provided service that adhered to quality standards in straightforward and defined situations in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have identified customer needs and provided customer service in complex or ill-defined situations, or in situations requiring analysis and interpretation of general guidelines and have applied them to new situations in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have identified customer needs and provided customer service in situations that were complex, and/or that involved difficult interpersonal relationships requiring conflict resolution in a legal environment, court or community service agency. 5 Which response best describe your use of independent judgment in order to complete tasks and meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have not used this ability in a full time position. I have experience in a general office setting where I was responsible for meeting deadlines and completing tasks under direct supervision. I have at least three years of experience where I was responsible for meeting deadlines and completing tasks on a daily basis with minimal supervision. I have experience involving over three years where I worked closely with managers to meet deadlines and complete tasks in a legal environment. I have developed schedules and administrative protocols using this knowledge. I often use independent judgment to complete tasks. 6 Select the response(s) that best describes your experience communicating in writing. I have researched, drafted or produced the following documents: Answer to this question is required Statistical analyses Reports. Project planning documents Training outlines, presentations or materials Recommendations for action by others Program procedures or work processes Educational materials, brochures, or guidelines None of the above. 7 Which response best represents your experience setting priorities? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in setting priorities. I have education and/or training in setting priorities but I have not had to do so at work. I have experience setting priorities for my own work under supervision. I routinely prioritize my own work without supervision. I routinely prioritize my work and the work of others. I routinely provide training to others in establishing priorities. 8 Which responses best describe your experience in public speaking? Select all the responses that apply. Answer to this question is required I have made formal presentations to subordinates, colleagues, and/or supervisors. I have delivered informational briefings to officials outside my employing organizations. I have successfully completed college level courses in public speaking. I have participated in formal oral communication groups such as Toastmasters. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).