Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 3 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Operating Room Staff Nurses must possess the ability to act appropriately in critical situations. They are responsible for ensuring the Operating Room is consistently in a state of readiness for emergency and routine situations. During critical or emergency situations, the Operating Room Staff Nurse is expected to coordinate activities received and ensure proper equipment is available for procedures needed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed instruction during life or death emergencies in an Operating Room (e.g., Code Blue, trauma cases); and/or I have rearranged operating room staff schedules when unexpected patient emergencies occurred; and/or I have provided an immediate response to an emergency medical situation. I have directed others in performing duties during emergency/critical situations; and/or I have served as a resource person for other medical team members; and/or I have anticipated needs of the Operating Room as a circulating nurse to ensure functions and procedures are carried out according to governing regulations. I have performed pre-op and post-op assessment of a patient's condition with appropriate recommendation; and/or I have obtained assistance in the event of an emergency; and/or I have assisted in the activity of setting up for cases in the event of an emergency. None of the above. 5 Operating Room Staff Nurses must effectively interact with physicians, subordinate staff, co-workers, inmates and outside resources to assist in the orderly operation of the department. They must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate with other departments both internal and external. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged information and gave direction to all parties in the execution of physician's orders; and/or I have provided oversight of all operating room/surgical technicians in the performance of their duties; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve issues; and/or I have communicated/coordinated services with outside surgical consultants, staff physicians, and other departments in scheduling patient services. I have obtained information and relayed findings to supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have communicated with a patient and explained procedures and assessed the aftercare needs of patient; and/or I have provided pertinent information during internal meetings; and/or I have prepared short reports or memorandums that are accurate, well organized and concise. I have facilitated patient education presentations or training; and/or I have contacted vendors regarding the procurement of new equipment and/or supplies. I have trained surgical technician and operating room staff on updated procedures; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings; and/or I have discussed an order/shipment discrepancy with a vendor and relayed findings with supervisor; and/or I have coordinated a medical escort trip with other departments to transport patients. I have resolved standard problems or complaints encountered using established procedures explained pre and post-operative information to patients on basic or recurring procedures. None of the above. 6 Operating Room Staff Nurses must have thorough knowledge of safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment along with an understanding of infection control procedures and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided care and/or recommendations while working as an infection control nurse in a hospital, clinic or community based setting or as a member of a committee specializing in infection control and disease prevention issues; and/or I have developed and provided training sessions on nosocomial infections, blood borne or airborne diseases, or provided instruction to patients on managing their infectious or chronic disease. I have written procedures on nosocomial infections and disease prevention; and/or I have analyzed responses to fire and disaster drills to determine areas in need of improvement. I have completed dressing changes on an HIV or immuno-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis. I have recommended safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination that have been adopted; and/or I have monitored patient outcomes in regards to infectious disease management; and/or I have applied safety principles to a patient care environment; and/or I have supervised subordinates in the nursing unit during fire and disaster drills. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case, alerted staff and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures and precautions; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have participated in fire and disaster drills in accordance to safety department policy. None of the above. 7 Operating Room Staff Nurses must possess the ability to develop, interpret and apply policies and perform procedures specific to operating room operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied appropriate Operating Room sterilization and infection control procedures; and/or I have explained policies and procedures to less experienced staff; and/or I have ensured proper accountability of all surgical items (i.e., sponges, sharps, instruments, blades); and/or I have maintained accurate Operating Room records as required by the Joint Commission and/or other accrediting organizations. I have participated in a workgroup/committee under the direction of a higher level staff member; and/or I have performed recurring duties in compliance with governing regulations (e.g., Joint Commission, infection control, sterilization); and/or I have ensured compliance with Association of Operative Register Nurses' guidelines; and/or I have collected quality assurance data in accordance with instructions/policy. I have developed operating room guidelines, policies and procedures to streamline and improve efforts; and/or I have interpreted and implemented proper sterilization and infection control procedures; and/or I have utilized and referenced contract and procurement guidelines when dealing with outside consultant and vendors; and/or I have served as a chairperson on workgroups or committees in developing special pre or post-operational care programs. I have provided recommendations for updates/revisions to existing policies and procedures for higher level consideration; and/or I have participated in developing patient programs which improved quality of care. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).