Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Toggle navigation About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 &nbsp;Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Degree: geology, plus 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography. Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not possess the education and/or experience as mentioned above. 2 &nbsp;Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Specialized experience is defined as experience analyzing geologic resource issues, assessing natural hazards, conducting complex environmental analyses, and writing NEPA documents. 3 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, SF-50, ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 2 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in the competitive service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following have you performed related to the reviewing of applications for natural gas facilities do you have? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting geotechnical analysis. I have experience analyzing groundwater data. I have experience assessing impacts on paleontological resources. I have experience assessing potential impacts on mineral resources. I have experience reviewing for potential erosion (both wind and water), prime farmland, depth to bedrock, and revegetation concerns from construction and operation. I do not have this experience. 5 Which of the following best practices do you have experience implementing? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience applying industry best practices related to subsurface construction methodologies (e.g. horizontal directional drilling, direct-pipe method) and the associated risks and contingency plans. I have expensive experience applying industry best practices related to blasting and associated mitigation measures to protect nearby sensitive environmental resources. I have experience applying industry best practices related to impacts associated with storage cavern construction such as drawdown of groundwater for cavern development. I have experience applying industry best practices related to mitigating natural hazards, such as seismicity, landslides, subsidence, karst, and flood hazards. I do not have this experience. 6 Which of the following describes your experience with natural gas pipeline crossings in areas of steep side slopes? Answer to this question is required I have experience using topographic mapping, geologic data, and other data sources to identify areas of potential slope slips. I have evaluated mitigation plans for natural gas pipeline crossings in areas of steep side slopes during the environmental review process of a pipeline project application. I have reviewed and approved requests to remediate areas of slope slips during construction and/or restoration of natural gas pipelines in areas of steep side slopes. I have in-field inspection experience with natural gas pipelines crossing areas of steep side slopes. I do not have this experience. 7 Which activities have you performed related to natural gas related issues?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have had discussions with colleagues on natural gas related issues. I have had discussions with my supervisor on natural gas related issues. I have made recommendations to my supervisor on natural gas related issues. I have made recommendations to upper management on natural gas related issues. I do not have this experience. 8 Select the responses which describe your experience having conversations with others.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my colleagues. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my supervisor. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for a non-technical audience. I have experience having conversations with colleagues about their work products I have experience having conversations with my supervisor about my work products. I do not have this experience. 9 Which of the following groups have you presented technical information to?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Federal, state, or local agency staff; Commissioners and/or Commissioner’s Assistants; Senior management; Industry or agency groups; Community groups and or non-governmental organizations; or None of the above. 10 Which of the following documents have you written?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Commission Notices; Delegated Orders; Environmental Documents; Environmental Inserts; Requests for Information; or None of the above. 11 Which statements describe the type of writing experience you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Writing to convey/explain a complicated issue. Writing to influence the opinion or action of others. Writing to recommend a solution to a problem with supporting documentation and evidence. Writing to summarize the results of research or a project. Writing to describe findings and recommendations. I do not have experience writing for any of the above purposes. 12 Which actions have you performed when completing a written document?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Submitted a document that I drafted for review; Added additional information to a document that someone else wrote; Edited someone else’s written document for clarity, interpretation, and tone; Edited someone else’s written document for spelling, grammar, and thought organization; Reviewed someone else’s written document for fact and / or data accuracy; Presenting and justifying / defending a technical position in a work environment; or None of the above. View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).