Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following responses demonstrates the types of personnel management duties you have performed regularly in the area of personnel actions? Answer to this question is required Staffing and placement Completing personnel actions Approving personnel actions Updating Organizations charts Updating Staffing plans Providing Time and Attendance system support Entering job requisitions None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your experience with and knowledge of position management principles and practices? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led managers in planning and/or implementing reorganizations involving major mission changes. I have evaluated position management strategies in order to provide assistance to supervisors on improving structure, work distribution, and/or employee skill sets. I have counseled management on position management strategies effected by organizational changes causing the restructuring of positions. I have assessed position management issues and/or problems and provided recommendations or solutions to management. None of the above 5 What is your level of education and/or training with the budget automated systems and processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have taken a basic course or had some training on the fundamentals of budget preparation. I have taken a basic course or had some training on budget tracking and reconciliation. I have taken an intermediate course or had some training on budget tracking and reconciliation. I have taken a course or had some training on preparation of budget reports. I have not performed any of the above functions. 6 Which of the following statements best describe your professional experience with providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations, policy, and guidance? Answer to this question is required I have experience directly providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations and policy developing and guidance. I have experience providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations, policy and guidance. I have experience assisting senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations. I have experience gathering data to assist senior management on performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations. I have experience assisting an HR department with developing personnel regulations. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience in the management, oversight and evaluation of operational activities for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Choose the answer that best describes your knowledge of records management rules, regulations and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have interpreted records management rules, regulations and procedures I have education or training in records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have followed guidance of supervisors in interpreting records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have interpreted records management rules, regulations and procedures as part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have no knowledge of records management rules, regulations and procedures. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience working with the HR automated systems in processing a variety of personnel actions? Answer to this question is required Little. Moderate. Extensive. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience establishing, maintaining and utilizing automated HR systems to perform technical and administrative support functions? Answer to this question is required I have established, maintained and utilized automated HR systems to perform technical and administrative support functions as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have established, maintained and utilized automated HR systems to perform technical and administrative support functions as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have established, maintained and utilized automated HR systems to perform technical and administrative support functions under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established policies and procedures. I have completed training on using HR systems to perform technical and administrative support functions but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have experience or training using HR systems. 11 Which of the following position management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have provided oversight of and guidance on employment ceilings. I have analyzed use of human capital. I have developed and implemented reorganizations, realignments, and/or other changes affecting structure and allocation or resources. I have prepared, updated, and maintained organizational charts. I have not performed any of the above functions. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience evaluating organization workforce trends (e.g., turnover, vacancies, balance of workforce, retention) to forecast staffing deficiencies? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.