Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 [338] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [10404] In addition to the Basic Qualifications Requirements, you must also meet additional requirements for Operations Research (GS-1515) positions. Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with these requirements. Answer to this question is required I have completed a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [73572] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this Operations Research Analyst- GS-1515-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience assisting in the application of operations research tools, analytical techniques and information technology and systems knowledge AND experience assisting in the preparation of reports and presentations and presenting to individuals and groups within an organization. This matching experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 [73560] In 500 words or less, please describe your experience assisting with the application of operations research tools, mathematical methods, or information technology to analyze data and solve organizational&nbsp;problems. Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.2 [73561] In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in the preparation of technical documentation, data collection, and quality assurance processes for information systems. Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.3 [73562] In 500 words or less, please describe your experience preparing reports and presentations, and your&nbsp;ability to coordinate work efforts through meetings and interpersonal contacts. Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 3.1 [73569] In 500 words or less, please explain how your education provided you with the foundational knowledge to assist in the application of operations research tools and the preparation of organizational reports. Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 09 1 [30209] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [10404] In addition to the Basic Qualifications Requirements, you must also meet additional requirements for Operations Research (GS-1515) positions. Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with these requirements. Answer to this question is required I have completed a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [73573] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this Operations Research Analyst-GS-1515-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience assisting in the application of operations research tools, analytical techniques and information technology and systems knowledge (e.g., statistics, time series analysis, applied queueing theory, simulation, optimization, probabilistic uncertainty analysis) to improve decision making processes, system development methods or other operations AND experience preparing reports and presentations, and presenting to individuals and groups within an organization. This matching experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 [73563] In 500 words or less, please describe a time when you had to use statistical methods or modeling (such as regression analysis or simulation) to solve a management problem or evaluate alternative solutions. What specific tools did you use, and how did your analysis influence the final decision? Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.2 [73564] In 500 words or less, please describe project where you were responsible for identifying user requirements for a system or database. How did you ensure the final product met the customer's functional needs? Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.3 [73565] In 500 words or less, please provide an example of a technical report or presentation you developed for a&nbsp;non-technical audience. How did you handle a situation where you had to persuade a group with a different perspective to move toward a mutual goal? Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. 3.1 [73570] In 500 words or less, please explain how your graduate-level education specifically prepared you to apply operations research tools and communicate technical findings within an organization. Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [10404] In addition to the Basic Qualifications Requirements, you must also meet additional requirements for Operations Research (GS-1515) positions. Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with these requirements. Answer to this question is required I have completed a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [73574] Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or specialized experience for this Operations Research Analyst-GS-1515-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience applying operations research tools and information technology and systems knowledge (e.g., statistics, time series analysis, applied queueing theory, simulation, optimization, probabilistic uncertainty analysis) to decision making processes, system development methods or other operations AND experience preparing reports and presentations, and presenting to individuals and groups such as managers, clients, professional organizations, and/or other groups and individuals. This experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 [73566] In 500 words or less, please a time when you had to select and apply a specific operations&nbsp;research tool&mdash;such as simulation, optimization, or time series analysis&mdash;to solve a complex&nbsp;problem. What was the problem, why did you choose that specific methodology, and how did&nbsp;your analysis influence the final decision? Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.2 [73567] Building and maintaining large-scale safety information&nbsp;systems requires close collaboration between analysts and IT staff. In 500 words or less, please provide an example of a&nbsp;project where you identified user requirements and worked with a technical team to design or&nbsp;test a new automated analysis tool. Maximum length of 501 characters. 3.3 [73568] In 500 words or less, please describe a technical report or presentation you delivered to a group of managers or clients. How did you structure your findings to ensure they were understood, and&nbsp;how did you handle any conflicting viewpoints? Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 3.1 [73571] In 500 words or less, please explain how your graduate-level education provided you with the theoretical and&nbsp;practical foundation to apply operations research tools and communicate findings to professional&nbsp;groups or management. Maximum length of 501 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements above. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 6 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).