Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one answer that describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for Education Specialist positions. Answer to this question is required I have a degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. Combination of education and experience courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 Do you have experience creating or maintaining digital outreach programs for education purposed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience managing and executing Public Programs? Answer to this question is required I have experience planning, developing, implementing, and evaluating educational programs and activities to serve a variety of audiences. I have experience identifying stakeholders, scholars, community leaders, etc. I have experience developing networks to build and expand programming opportunities. I have experience leading, directing, and managing educational programmatic activities. I have experience managing financial activities for an educational department. I have experience writing professional documents seeking funding at local, regional, national and or global levels. I do not have experience in any of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience developing outreach programs that include off-site programming, and digital and electronic-based programming? Answer to this question is required In a museum setting I have developed outreach programs that included off-site, digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. In an educational non-profit setting I have developed outreach programs that included school-based programming and digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have assisted in the development of outreach programs to reach diverse audiences and digital and electronic-based education program and activities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 7 In which of the following environments have you managed educational programs including planning, direction, evaluation, and communication of goals and priorities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Preschool K-12 classroom College/University History or technology museums Art museums Science Centers Historic homes Cultural centers Community centers Other non-traditional venues None of the above 8 Which of the following activities related to educational or public program development have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed educational activities, public programs or similar experiential learning events for the public focused on history, art, culture and community. I have developed educational activities or public programs for the public. I have developed written or visual educational content to be shared with the public. I have planned educational events or public programs for the public. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience or training creating and managing exhibition-based gallery programming that provide an interactive educational experience for visitors? Answer to this question is required I have received training on this task but have never performed it on the job. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job but require close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I am considered an expert and am consulted by others on this task. I have no experience performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience developing outreach programs that include off-site programming, digital, and electronic-based programming? Answer to this question is required I have developed outreach programs that included off-site, and digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have developed outreach programs that included digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have assisted in the development of outreach programs to reach diverse audiences and digital and electronic-based education program and activities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Do you have experience developing annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost associated with developing individual or series of public programs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing an annual public program budget. I have completed formal education or training in developing an annual budget for individual public programs or a public program series, but have not performed this task routinely. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives under the supervision of a manager, or senior employee to ensure thoroughness compliance with established procedures. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program, schedule, or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed it myself routinely, and have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in developing collaborations or partnerships with museums, cultural institutions, educational organizations and communities? Answer to this question is required I have developed collaborations and partnerships that yielded positive relationships and resources. I have developed collaborations and partnerships. I have assisted others in developing collaborations or partnerships. I do not have any experience in developing collaborations or partnerships. 13 Which of the following reflects your ability to negotiate partnerships? Answer to this question is required I have negotiated effective partnerships involving three to five collaborators in addition to my organization around highly complex projects. I have negotiated effective partnerships involving one to two collaborators in addition to my organization around highly complex projects. I have negotiated effective partnerships within my organization. None of the above. 14 Do you have experience working on museum exhibit development teams with curators, designers, and collections professionals as colleagues, where your role was to develop public programs to uplift themes of relevance with audiences? Answer to this question is required As a member of the exhibition team, I have developed public programs as direct result of my learning-focused role based on my input on the evolution of the exhibition’s theme and throughlines. In a museum setting, I have advised exhibition teams, mid-process on what programs might potentially be developed. I have developed public programs associated with exhibition without membership on the exhibition team. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 15 Which of the following best describes your administrative experience as a supervisor? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues. I have no experience in supervising staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues I have experience in serving as a supervisor, assisting in daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. I have experience as a supervisor and manager. This includes managing and coordinating schedules, daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. 16 Which statement best describes your experience accomplishing special projects and short delivery periods? Answer to this question is required I have experience rearranging workload priorities to accommodate special projects or quick turnaround assignments while maintaining a timely and high level of performance on other assigned work. I have experience dealing with assignments that are “out-of-the-ordinary”, often with program personnel who have limited procurement knowledge. I have limited experience working on assignments that are outside my daily routine work flow. None of the above. 17 Which of the following duties have you held relating to supervision? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have interviewed and/or selected new employees to include contract workers. I have trained employees and/or contract workers on-the-job. I have approved employees time and attendance. I have recommended personnel actions for employees. I have assessed employee and/or contract workers performance. I have written performance plans. I have no supervisory experience. 18 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinates. I have provided supervision to subordinates. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have established deadlines for subordinates. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have participated as a full member of the management team and serve as the focal point for administrative management within organization served. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.