Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have one year of specialized experience (Federal or other) at the GS-11 level related to the work of this position? This experience includes supporting an executive in a complex cultural institution; managing calendar and travel; responding to inquiries, concerns and requests from multiple constituencies, including Board members, donors and officials from private industry; juggling multiple demands from internal and external entities; and managing office functions and administration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in supporting an executive's travel? Answer to this question is required I have occasionally arranged domestic travel. I have regularly arranged domestic travel and occasionally arranged international travel. I have regularly arranged domestic travel and occasionally arranged international travel in compliance with federal travel regulations. I do not have experience arranging travel. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience or training in arranging and scheduling meetings and conferences for supervisor, office staff, and other participants; assuring communication of agenda, time, and location; and provisioning all associated logistical support? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in arranging and scheduling meetings and conferences. I have completed training in arranging and scheduling meetings and conferences for supervisor, office staff or other participants, assuring communication of agenda, time, and location, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have arranged and scheduled meetings and conferences for supervisor, office staff and/or other participants, assuring communication of agenda, time, and location, and the provision of all associated logistical support on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have arranged and scheduled meetings and conferences for supervisor, office staff and/or other participants, assuring communication of agenda, time, and location, and the provision of all associated logistical support as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have arranged and scheduled meetings and conferences for supervisor, office staff and/or other participants, assuring communication of agenda, time, and location, and the provision of all associated logistical support as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience or training in utilizing standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc.? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in utilizing standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc. I have completed training in utilizing standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc., but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have utilized standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc., on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have utilized standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc., as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have utilized standard computer systems (e.g., Outlook, etc.) used for electronic communications, maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, etc., as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 In situations in which you have been faced with multiple or conflicting priorities, select up to three options that you would be most likely use to manage them. Answer to this question is required Make a plan Consult with others involved in the task(s) Address least complex issues first, then move on the larger problems. Address the most urgent (or those with the most immediate impact) first, then address the less pressing issues. Delegate to others or look to see if other can manage the issue(s). Consult with supervisor or project leader to determine priorities. Develop options for addressing multiple issues. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to work effectively under pressure, or where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience where I have had to work under pressure or deadlines. I have had education or training, but I have not had experience working under pressure or deadlines. I have had experience where I was sometimes assigned clear deadlines in addition to my standard duties or assignments in a stable work environment. I have had experience where I was sometimes assigned clear deadlines in addition to my standard duties or assignments in a fluctuating or stressful work environment. I have had experience where I was routinely expected to meet multiple deadlines in a work environment with changing duties and responsibilities, and/or where I coordinated the work of others to meet deadlines or organizational goals in an environment with changing duties and responsibilities. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience balancing competing priorities among multiple simultaneous projects and ensuring self and others meet deadlines and produce deliverables as necessary for project success? Answer to this question is required I have independently managed multifaceted, simultaneous projects that required skillful and diplomatic balancing of competing priorities, resulting in successful completion of concurrent projects on time and within budget. I have been a key team member on projects for which I managed concurrent schedules and balanced competing priorities between projects, resulting in the successful completion of projects. I have worked on a project that involved managing schedules for self and others, determining priorities, and coordinating with project members to meet deadlines and contribute to project success. I do not have experience managing multiple simultaneous projects, schedules, and priorities. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in organizing and maintaining office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents, or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages, or background for meetings or conferences? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in organizing and maintaining office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences. I have completed training in organizing and maintaining office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have organized and maintained office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have organized and maintained office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely organized and maintained office organizational charts, telephone directories, files, and routine information to be able to search files, documents or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences as a central or major part of my work and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking, all while maintaining good customer service and meeting various deadlines. Answer to this question is required I have experience working under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur, while maintaining a customer service focus, meeting deadlines, and solving program issues concurrently. I have experience working under pressure to complete accurate, timely, and technically sound work while providing good customer service focus and meeting deadlines. I have experience accomplishing tasks while maintaining good customer service. I have experience accomplishing tasks, however, customer service has not been a requirement. None of the above. 11 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have had work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management?s views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge. None of the above. 13 Which of the following types of written communication do you have experience writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I prepare correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I develop technical manuals and/or training manuals. I prepare analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals. I write commercially available publications such a books or manuscripts. I develop operating instructions and/or formal instructions or directives. I write clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I write clear, logical, concise and persuasive reports and other written materials for varied audiences. I develop written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written technical or legal reports, or translated technical or other complex material into language that was more easily understood. I have prepared responses to my agency/organization and/or Congressional inquiries. I write papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 14 Which of the following reflects your experience preparing written communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional e-mails. Formal letters/memos. Technical reports. Presentations. Position papers. None of the above. 15 Choose the responses that best describes your experience providing customer service to clients. Answer to this question is required I have followed up on requests or complaints. I have ensured that services or products reflect organizational goals and objectives. I have responded to requests to resolve complaints from customers. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, provided quality products and services. I have not performed these job functions. 16 Which of the following customer service tasks do you have experience with? Answer to this question is required I have directly investigated, researched, and resolved customer issues. I have provided customer service that was favorably recognized by a colleague, supervisor, or the customers. None of the above. 17 Which of the following describe your experience providing customer service to the public and/or staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received telephone calls, inquiries or requests for information, and determined referral or provided information to caller. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems and taken corrective action. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members or personally handling matters not requiring technical knowledge. I have used customer service skills to work with individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have worked effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have independently followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 18 Which of the following attributes describe organizations you have experience supporting an executive in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Organizations with a national public constituency Organizations with multiple subordinate levels Organizations with multiple levels above Organizations with federal oversight Organizations with a national advisory board Organizations with corporate, foundation and individual donors Organizations whose executive has/had outside but related obligations Organizations with scrutiny by news media None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.