Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements below describes administrative activities that you have carried out? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed letters, memoranda, and reports. Created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. Notified or reminded others of pending actions. Arranged travel including plane, car, and hotel reservations. Created travel authorizations in a system such as Govtrip. Used a word processing application to create documents and reports. Acted as a timekeeper and entered time and attendance data into a system such as WebTA. Responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. Independently managed my tasks in an office environment with multiple staff and priorities. None of the above. 3 Which of the following funds management duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 4 Which of the following time and attendance duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering time and attendance codes into an automated system Filing time and attendence sheets Tracking time and attendance and leave for assigned staff Ensuring that time and attendance sheets are coded properly Using knowledge of time and attendance rules and regulations to provide guidance to employees on time and attendance I have education and/or training related to time and attendance, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training related to time and attendance 5 Which of the following describe your experience in procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developd acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ordered a wide variety of goods and services and tracking delivery of said goods. I completed training, was issued a government purchase card and used said card for approved purchases. I have conducted market research for product options, availability and pricing. I have education and/or training in procurement but do not have experience performing these duties. I have extensive knowledge of Federal procurement regulations and procedures, including funds management. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your use of Microsoft Word? Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required I have performed Mail Merges. I have prepared labels and envelopes. I have typed narrative correspondence, documents and reports to create outlines, footnotes, indexes or tables of content. I have created tables. I have formatted features (e.g., fonts, created templates, objects, pictures, publishing tools). I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following software applications do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office or SQL E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio) Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word or Corel Word Perfect) None of the above 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed to proofread and verify information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed correspondence for spelling and proper grammar. I have proofread narrative text for spelling and proper grammar. I have proofread credit lines or labels for spelling and accuracy. I have compared two versions of documents in order to identify typographical errors. I have compared a draft document against source material to identify errors. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and brought them to the attention of other staff for resolution. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through research. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through contact with individuals within my organization. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through contact with individuals outside of my organization. I have proofread items where errors would create legal ramifications or financial penalties. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training proofreading in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents. I have completed formal education or training in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience receiving requests for service and accurately relaying the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in receiving requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience greeting and referring or providing assistance to office visitors? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in greeting and referring or providing assistance to office visitors. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience contacting others to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in contacting others to obtain information. I have contacted others to obtain information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following have you verbally communicated with professionally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Customers. In-house staff. Contractors. Vendors. Management. None of the above. Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements below describes administrative activities that you have carried out? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed letters, memoranda, and reports. Created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. Notified or reminded others of pending actions. Arranged travel including plane, car, and hotel reservations. Created travel authorizations in a system such as Govtrip. Used a word processing application to create documents and reports. Acted as a timekeeper and entered time and attendance data into a system such as WebTA. Responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. Independently managed my tasks in an office environment with multiple staff and priorities. None of the above. 3 Which of the following funds management duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 4 Which of the following time and attendance duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering time and attendance codes into an automated system Filing time and attendence sheets Tracking time and attendance and leave for assigned staff Ensuring that time and attendance sheets are coded properly Using knowledge of time and attendance rules and regulations to provide guidance to employees on time and attendance I have education and/or training related to time and attendance, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training related to time and attendance 5 Which of the following describe your experience in procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developd acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ordered a wide variety of goods and services and tracking delivery of said goods. I completed training, was issued a government purchase card and used said card for approved purchases. I have conducted market research for product options, availability and pricing. I have education and/or training in procurement but do not have experience performing these duties. I have extensive knowledge of Federal procurement regulations and procedures, including funds management. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your use of Microsoft Word? Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required I have performed Mail Merges. I have prepared labels and envelopes. I have typed narrative correspondence, documents and reports to create outlines, footnotes, indexes or tables of content. I have created tables. I have formatted features (e.g., fonts, created templates, objects, pictures, publishing tools). I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following software applications do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office or SQL E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio) Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word or Corel Word Perfect) None of the above 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed to proofread and verify information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed correspondence for spelling and proper grammar. I have proofread narrative text for spelling and proper grammar. I have proofread credit lines or labels for spelling and accuracy. I have compared two versions of documents in order to identify typographical errors. I have compared a draft document against source material to identify errors. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and brought them to the attention of other staff for resolution. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through research. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through contact with individuals within my organization. I have identified factual errors or inconsistencies and resolved them myself through contact with individuals outside of my organization. I have proofread items where errors would create legal ramifications or financial penalties. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training proofreading in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents. I have completed formal education or training in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience receiving requests for service and accurately relaying the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in receiving requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate staff member, office worker, or supporting contractor as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience greeting and referring or providing assistance to office visitors? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in greeting and referring or providing assistance to office visitors. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience contacting others to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in contacting others to obtain information. I have contacted others to obtain information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following have you verbally communicated with professionally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Customers. In-house staff. Contractors. Vendors. Management. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.