Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-04 level in the Federal service, as a security escort to visitors to a place of business? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you qualify for veteran preference, as described by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), at http://www.opm.gov/staffingportal/vetguide.asp#2Types? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Can you lift and carry an unconscious person, with the assistance of one other person? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you able to stoop and bend, such as required to provide CPR? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Can you carry a 20 pound object without assistance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Can you climb and descend two flights of steps quickly, without difficulty? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Can you stand 2.5 hours, without a break, on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Can you stand every work day for cumulative total of 5 hours and 40 minutes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Are you able to work in closed and confined spaces, such as a security booth and underground facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have the agility and ability to subdue violent suspects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Are you able to hear conversational voice and radio transmissions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you able to convey information via portable radio and telephone at a normal conversational volume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you ever been responsible for conducting a safety inspection of any kind, as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following on-the-job security responsibilities do you have experience with? Answer to this question is required Patrolling and inspecting to check locks, alarms, perimeter doors and other areas Receiving and dispatching Assisting staff/visitors during medical emergencies Evacuating staff/visitors during emergencies Conducting searches of persons or property entering or leaving a facility (i.e., conducting physical searches, searches of containers, cases, bags, vehicles searches) Preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a secure facility (i.e. ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, level of force) Conducting inspections to ensure compliance with safety requirements Protecting and securing areas involving incidents, securing a crime scene, taking witness statements, gathering evidence, detaining suspects None of the above 15 I have served as a security officer for a museum, or similar institution, specifically. Answer to this question is required True False 16 Do you have experience receiving and making two-way radio transmissions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you ever played a role in one of the following efforts: 1) evacuating a large building or neighborhood, under emergency conditions, or 2) participating in a shelter-in-place exercise or event? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you ever been trained in first aid and/or cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following emergency situations have you responded to in a security or law enforcement capacity? Answer to this question is required Bomb threat Medical emergency (e.g., cardiac arrest, seizure, injured visitor, etc.) Building fire Hazardous chemical spill Building evacuation Assault Shoplifting Shooting Lost persons Hostage situation None of the above 20 Do you have experience assisting others during medical emergencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Do you have experience evacuating others during emergencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 Choose the statement(s) that most accurately describes your experience communicating with others in a difficult situation. Answer to this question is required I have resolved difficult or sensitive situations involving antagonistic or hostile individuals. I have resolved difficult and sensitive situations involving customers with diverse needs and backgrounds. I have had training or education in the areas of conflict resolution or interpersonal skills development. None of the above. 23 Which of the following best describes your ability to communicate orally to explain procedures, provide instructions, and resolve administrative, personnel and EEO issues? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer; giving orders and communicating detailed instruction; explaining policies and procedures to subordinate staff in a clear, concise and timely manner regarding specific duties to conduct their daily activities; and providing technical advice, assistance and counseling to resolve complaints by employees or staff. I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer explaining policies and procedures; and providing detailed instructions to staff and visitors. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. 24 Indicate on which tasks you have been professionally trained. Answer to this question is required Report writing Customer service Verbal communication Writing performance appraisals Approving leave requests Writing disciplinary reports Leadership development Organizational skills Time management I have not been professionally trained on any of these tasks. 25 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience conducting physical searches of containers, cases, bags or vehicles?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 26 Describe your experience providing customer service in a positive manner.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. i have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. i have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.