Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience in analyzing trends in public and media attitudes? Answer to this question is required I have not performed these job functions. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have helped me to perform these functions successfully. I have performed these functions as a regular part of jobs that I have held. I am highly skilled at public and media attitude analysis. 2 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with advising personnel on communications strategies for handling sensitive or controversial topics with the media and/or public? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 3 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with writing speeches or talking points for an organization`s leadership? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 4 Select the response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity: Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I normally provide responses independently on behalf of the office. I have served in a liaison capacity with a limited number of people inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving requests for information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I normally verify responses with senior level employees before issuing final response. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.