Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In which of the following roles have you directed or led others in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Team leader First line supervisor Middle manager Mentor Upper manager Head of organization None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Discipline Awards Leave Scheduling Staffing Conflict resolution Coaching and or counseling Labor relations None of the above 7 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 8 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 9 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers / briefs. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas 11 Which of the following choices best describe your highest level of education or experience in national or international security programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience pertaining to national and/or international security programs. I have education or training pertaining to national and/or international security programs, but have NOT yet applied it on the job. I have applied my knowledge of national and/or international security programs on the job under close supervision. I have applied my knowledge of national and/or international security programs as a regular part of the job without supervision. I am highly knowledgeable about national and/or international security programs and have trained others in this topic area. 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your past experience in communicating persuasively? Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 13 Which of the following policies, regulations, or guidance have you utilized? Answer to this question is required Agency policies Contracts Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) Military Standards 212D Directives None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.