Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 5 From the following list, select the types of decisions you made: Answer to this question is required Hiring Personnel Termination Reorganization Policy Budget formulation Project scope Program initiation and/or termination None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 7 Select one description that BEST represents your experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above 8 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 9 Select the tasks you have performed in inspecting, investigating, negotiating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance or enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of reported violations, policy exceptions, debarment decisions or other legal, regulatory or administrative actions. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Conducted onsite inspections, surveys or visits to assess compliance with laws, regulations or executive orders. Conducted investigations to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. Conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose activities have not been in compliance. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Reviewed and identified documents and other open source information sources to identify knowledge or information gaps to determine whether a violation has occurred. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 11 Indicate the types of performance metrics that you have personally developed. Answer to this question is required Customer service Call center Hardware/ network performance Development Contract performance Budget tracking Due diligence compliance Earned value / Return on Investment None of the above 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 13 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and hiring. Assigning duties to employees. Reviewing assigned work of employees. Providing training to new and current staff members. Approving and disapproving leave requests. Developing performance expectations. Evaluating performance of employees. Resolving internal conflicts or problems amongst staff members. Coaching, mentoring, and employee development. None of the above. 14 In which of the following do you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Coaching None of the above 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent change, delay, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a goal. None of the above. 16 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving speaking and presenting information: Answer to this question is required Delivered presentations to groups of 1 to 20 persons. Delivered presentations to groups of 20 to 100 persons. Delivered presentations to groups over 100 persons. Delivered presentations to hostile or adversarial audiences. Briefed senior management. Briefed a Board of Directors or similar governing body. Presented at professional conferences or seminars. Presented at division or office staff meetings or conferences. Presented at inter-agency meetings. Presented at industry or trade group meetings. Served as an expert witness or gave testimony in a legal proceeding. None of the above. 17 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to develop an expansive professional network with other organizations and to identify the internal and external customers that impact the work of the organization. Answer to this question is required I have developed and enhanced alliances with both internal and external groups (i.e. other agencies or firms, state and local government, and clientele groups) to engage in cross-functional activities to find common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have enhanced alliances and maintained working relationships with internal and external groups to find mutually beneficial solutions and collaborate on a variety of human resources issues. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units to build and strengthen internal support bases and obtain understanding and support from higher level management. I have effectively developed networks and have built alliances with key individuals or groups. None of the above. 18 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.