Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, modifying, and repairing electronic systems? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to this task but have not yet applied it on the job. I have installed, maintained, modified, and repaired electronic systems under close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, and repaired electronic systems. I have led or instructed others to install, maintain, modify, and repair electronic systems using proper procedures. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with BASnet systems? Answer to this question is required I have no training or knowledge with BASnet systems. I have completed education or training on BASnet systems. I have installed BASnet systems. I have operated BASnet systems. I have modified BASnet systems. 4 Do you&nbsp;have experience operating any Control System? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you have experience independently maintaining and repairing control equipment such as PLC, DCS rooms PCs, servers, routers, HVAC controls, VFD controls, electric power meters, uninterruptible power supplies, vibration/motion detection devices, recorders, electronic metering equipment, security and intrusion devices, radio frequency transmitting and receiving devices and other related electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Select the documents you have interpreted to design, install, or repair a system. Answer to this question is required Engineering drawings Schematics Logic diagrams Mechanical drawings None of the above 7 Have you used a digital multi-meter to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which of the following types of systems have you been responsible for operating or maintaining? Answer to this question is required DDC BASNet PLC None of the above 9 Do you have experience troubleshooting electronic systems for which minimal documentation exists? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.