Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Supporting high-level management in a confidential environment to include managing schedules; (2) Using Microsoft Office suite and other software programs to support and manage administrative activities. (3) Prepares administrative forms. Grade: 08 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Supporting high-level management in a confidential environment to include managing schedules; (2) Develops and documents standard procedures to support office operations. (3) Providing customer service in person, by phone and in writing and (4) Serves as the office&rsquo;s point of contact for training requests (ie: process training requests and monitors training actives). Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-8 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Supporting high-level management in a confidential environment to include managing schedules and calendar; (2) Develops and documents standard procedures to support office operations. (3) Providing customer service in person, by phone and in writing (4) Using Microsoft Office suite and other software programs to support and manage administrative activities (5) Prepares and submits payments, requisitions, tracks requisitions and set up large purchases in FMS and coordinate with appropriate staff. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Select the statement(s) that describes your experience in providing administrative/clerical support and customer service. Answer to this question is required I have experience providing a full range of administrative/clerical support work for an organization with varied functions. I have experience researching and responding to inquiries concerning projects and activities. I have participated in the development of administrative/clerical procedures for quality improvement within an organization. I have experience providing effective customer service including receiving visitors and phone calls. I have experience in scheduling and coordinating the use of conferencing rooms. None of the above 3 Which activities have you performed to organize the workflow of an office? Answer to this question is required Scheduled conference rooms Maintained an automated calendar Made travel arrangements Processed training requests Set up meetings Ordered supplies Maintained office supplies Set up and maintained office files Routed mail Tracked expenses for budget Processed timesheets None of the Above 4 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 5 Select the statement that best describes your experience using WebTA. Answer to this question is required I have not used WebTA. I have completed training or education in the use of WebTA, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have entered time and attendance data into WebTA. I have entered time and attendance data and run standard reports from WebTA report selections. I have entered time and attendance data, run standard reports from WebTA report selections, and managed WebTA accounts (set up, edit, deactivate, etc..). 6 What types of administrative problems have you encountered and successfully resolved? Please provide a brief statement of how you successfully resolved the administrative problems you encountered in the narrative textbox below. Answer to this question is required Discrepancies in data Misreporting data (e.g., oversimplification, incomplete) Miscommunication of critical information Barriers to productivity Illegal or unethical behavior None of the above 7 Do you have experience scheduling a high volume of meetings and travel and anticipating the needs of managers helping them stay focused on their projects by avoiding operational and administrative issues before they occur? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select all areas of executive support in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Managing calendars Scheduling meetings Recording and distributing minutes of meetings Generating and routing documents for approval Disseminating communications and information to staff None of the above 9 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Provided customer service by telephone (e.g. call center or help desk). Explained technical issues and/or provided training to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, and/or direction on regulations and procedures. Clarified procedural, regulatory or policy requirements to a variety of individuals from within and outside of the agency or organization. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. Responded to requests for information from high ranking officials and VIPs None of the above. 10 Choose the oral communication tasks you have performed at work. Answer to this question is required Provided advice, guidance and direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Provided briefings to executives. Provided informational presentations to co-workers. Provided non-technical instructions to others (e.g., subordinates, new hires). None of the above. 11 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when exchanging information, providing advice and assistance, discussing requirements and resolving problems. Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Congressional Staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Internal Peers and Employees None of the above 12 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budget officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicated with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate, or resolve controversial policy, project, or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate, or persuade individuals or groups. I have participated in discussions as a program representative in order to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.