Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide reference and research services.** Demonstrated experience in providing reference and research services including the following: 1) providing reference and instruction to individuals and groups; 2) handling routine research needs with clearly defined questions; 3) identifying relevant resources; 4) assisting with specialized collections under senior staff guidance; 5) monitoring current events in relation to research topics and collections; and 6) identifying emerging trends in digital scholarship. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience in providing reference and research services in a library, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FIVE (5) of the above tasks, including 1) through 3) in a library, information center, or research organization setting. Has some experience in providing reference and research services in a library, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FOUR (4) of the above tasks, including 1) through 3) in a library, information center, or research organization setting. Has experience under direct supervison providing reference and research services, and in doing so, executed 1) through 3) of the above tasks in a library, information center, or research organization setting. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to develop and manage library collections.** Reviewed and recommended a variety of materials for acquisition in order to develop collections. Monitored the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and recommended a variety of materials for acquisition in order to develop collections, including computer science and artificial intelligence materials. Monitored the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in developing collection management strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Reviewed and recommended a variety of materials for acquisition in order to develop collections. Monitored the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisted in assisted in executing collection mangement strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. Reviewed a variety of sources of items for possible acquisition in order to develop collections in area(s) of subject responsibility. Assisted in monitoring the condition of collection materials. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies.** Utilized integrated library systems and/or web scale discovery services and other technologies sufficient to carry out library or research functions; deliver customer service; and improve the efficiency of the work. This includes: (1) searching, filtering, extracting, and merging information from library catalogs, databases, and data sources; (2) managing information using collaborative online tools; (3) disseminating and providing access to information; (4) creating subject guides; (5) aggregating and presenting information to respond to user needs; and (6) working with tools for managing quantitative and qualitative information as well as digital scholarship tools. Answer to this question is required Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including ALL of the above to execute a broad range of library reference and research services in a library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including at least, FOUR of the above, including 1) through 3), to execute a range of library reference and research services in a library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including at least THREE of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in a library or equivalent professional setting. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultations, presentations and briefings, performed liaison duties, and initiated new and maintained existing work relationships. Answer to this question is required Provided online and in-person consultations, presentations and briefings. Developed and maintained professional relationships with librarians, cooperative partners, and other specialists within and outside the organization. Exchanged information or knowledge related to reference and research services, collaborated on projects, and/or solved problems with individuals and/or groups with various levels of understanding or knowledge in the area of science and technology. Provided online an in-person consultations, presentations and briefings. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and cooperative partners within and outside the organization to provide specialized reference and research services and serve as a liaison to working groups within the organization. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals primarily within the organization to provide reference and research services and exchange information in in a professional setting. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products such as: 1) correspondence relating to reference and research inquiries; 2) subject guides and finding aids; 3) reports, such as usage reports; 4) collection evaluations; 5) presentations; 6) social media posts; and 7) professional publications. Answer to this question is required Independently researched, analyzed and wrote AT LEAST FIVE of the above documents to individuals inside and outside the organization to answer reference and research questions related to science and technology. With minimal supervision, or collaboratively, researched, analyzed and wrote AT LEAST FOUR of the above documents to individuals inside and outside the organization to answer reference and research questions in a library or information organization. With direct supervision, or collaboratively, wrote AT LEAST THREE of the above documents, to answer reference and research requested in a library or information organization. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).