Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Employee Development Specialist instruct training programs and communicate with a variety of people to exchange information and interacts with people of many levels both internal and external to the organization.&nbsp; He/she instruct training programs, resolve training problems and provide career counseling guidance. Contacts may include outside vendors wishing to provide training services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have answered questions from employees about training records or training opportunities; and/or I have provided general information regarding training materials; and/or I have provided an update on the status of a project during a staff meeting. I have conducted training sessions on new technology for co-workers; and/or I have answered administrative/technical questions from upper level management; and/or I have spoken to vendors and persons outside the organization to coordinate training sessions or conferences; and/or I have provided technical information to employees/vendors regarding office procedures and how to complete forms such as the training authorization form, course evaluation form, and the credit card purchase form. I have answered questions and provided information to training participants regarding upcoming training; and/or I have assisted with providing training to employees during training classes such as Annual training; and/or I have given instruction to employees about how to fill out employee development forms such as sign-in sheets, enrollment forms, and on-the-job training checklists. None of the above. 3 The Employee Development Specialist prepares correspondence and communicate in writing with others both inside and outside the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared routine emails response to inquiries; and/or I have ensured proper format and grammar for outgoing correspondence; and/or I have completed standard forms for book requests, supplies requisition, and building repairs. I have developed new office forms to be used both internally and externally to the agency; and/or I have created emails to explain a new policy to employees; and/or I have prepared a training agenda to relay course information to instructors and participants. I have responded to inquiries from employees about scheduled training using email; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming training opportunity. None of the above. 4 The Employee Development Specialist interacts with a variety of individuals in order to pass on information and to facilitate training programs.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have greeted visitors to the department; and/or I have greeted and handed out information to training participants upon arrival; and/or I have provided a tour to new staff during an orientation session. I have prepared room for training by organizing the tables and chairs which encourages participation; and/or I have served as a member of a work group; and/or I have coordinated events with other departments; and/or I have conducted staff interviews as a member of a Program Review team to ensure policy and procedures were met with regards to customer satisfaction. I have answered general departmental inquiries; and/or I have referred to company policy to determine if information was releasable; and/or I have explained basic entrance procedures to visitors. None of the above. 5 The Employee Development Specialist is responsible for planning and evaluating programs.&nbsp; He/she must lead groups in formal, organized training exercises that encourage group participation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained progress notes for on-going work assignments; and/or I have completed individual needs assessment; and/or I have worked with others to complete projects. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers; and/or I have established internal procedures for advising others on schedule changes; and/or I have provided supervisor with status reports. I have prearranged activities to stimulate participation during a conference or training session; and/or as a program manager, I have planned an event; and/or I have followed a checklist to ensure completion of tasks; and/or I have researched team building techniques to enhance a training course. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Employee Development Specialist instruct training programs and communicate with a variety of people to exchange information and interacts with people of many levels both internal and external to the organization.&nbsp; He/she instruct training programs, contacts may include outside vendors wishing to provide training services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions and provided information to training participants regarding upcoming training; and/or I have assisted with providing training to employees during training classes such as Annual training; and/or I have given instruction to employees about how to fill out employee development forms such as sign-in sheets, enrollment forms, and on-the-job training checklists. I have explained employee development policies and procedures to staff; and/or I have reviewed course evaluations and answered questions from instructors in accordance with policy; and/or I have spoken to employees about cross-development courses; and/or I have provided non-routine synopsis/briefing of a research project during department staff meetings; and/or I have participated in a budget and/or salary workforce utilization meeting. I have conducted training sessions on new technology for co-workers; and/or I have answered administrative/technical questions from upper level management; and/or I have spoken to vendors and persons outside the organization to coordinate training sessions or conferences; and/or I have provided technical information to employees/vendors regarding office procedures and how to complete forms such as the training authorization form, course evaluation form, and the credit card purchase form. None of the above. 3 The Employee Development Specialist prepares correspondence and communicate in writing with others both inside and outside the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed new office forms to be used both internally and externally to the agency; and/or I have created emails to explain a new policy to employees; and/or I have prepared a training agenda to relay course information to instructors and participants. I have used email to contact executive staff or department heads to inform them of their budget allotment for training purposes; and/or I have contacted employees using email to inform them of their training approval; and/or I have responded to employee requests in accordance with policy after gathering evaluation forms. I have responded to inquiries from employees about scheduled training using email; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming training opportunity. None of the above. 4 The Employee Development Specialist interacts with a variety of individuals in order to pass on information and to facilitate training programs.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have greeted visitors to the department; and/or I have greeted and handed out information to training participants upon arrival; and/or I have provided a tour to new staff during an orientation session. I have prepared room for training by organizing the tables and chairs which encourages participation; and/or I have served as a member of a group; and/or I have coordinated events with other departments; and/or I have conducted staff interviews as a member of a Program Review team to ensure policy and procedures were met with regards to customer satisfaction. I have worked as a customer service representative answering questions and resolving complaints; and/or I have spoken to employees and supervisors to inform them of dates and times of approved training; and/or I have explained proper procedures for requesting training or use of equipment to staff. None of the above. 5 The Employee Development Specialist is responsible for planning and evaluating programs.&nbsp; He/she must lead groups in formal, organized training exercises that encourage group participation.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained new co-workers on office procedures; and/or I have determined priority of assigned tasks and insured completion in order of importance; and/or I have organized pending files of on-going work assignments, noting current status. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers; and/or I have established internal procedures for advising others on schedule changes; and/or I have provided supervisor with status reports. I have prearranged activities to stimulate participation during a conference or training session; and/or as a program manager, I have planned an event; and/or I have followed a checklist to ensure completion of tasks; and/or I have researched team building techniques to enhance a training course. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).