Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Have you previously held a position with the Library of Congress? If yes, choose one or more&nbsp;of the following employment relationships.&nbsp; (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required No I held a permanent appointment. I held a temporary appointment. I was a Junior Fellow. I was a volunteer. I was a contractor. 3 Please indicate your first choice of project. (Selection does not guarantee placement in this area.)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required 01 – Digital resources support: Provide creative and technical assistance for curated digital resources published regularly by the Center. Such products include two podcast series, Folklife Today and America Works, blog posts, Research Guides, and digital collections. Responsibilities may include collection research, interpretive writing, digital asset selection, editing, and/or file preparation. Examples available here: https://loc.gov/podcasts/ or https://guides.loc.gov/american-folklife. 02 – 50th Anniversary Programs Support: Assist staff in running public programs and initiatives that are part of the celebrating the Center’s 50th anniversary in 2026. Responsibilities may include reference work and/or collections exploration; public program staffing; or curatorial support for exhibitions or collection displays. 03 – Collections Processing: Work with AFC staff to support archival processing of multiformat collections, primarily including analog manuscript, photographic, and audio/visual materials. Responsibilities will include rehousing, labeling, metadata creation, and other tasks related to arrangement and description of a variety of archival materials. 04– Boxed Set Research: Support AFC staff in collections research and curatorial work for a proposed publication of audio materials from AFC collections. This publication would support the 2028 100th anniversary of the Archive of Folk Culture. Responsibilities will entail coordinating exploration of audio collection materials; identifying assets and collection materials for inclusion in the publication; developing interpretive and descriptive text; and general editorial assistance. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Please indicate your second choice of project . (Selection does not guarantee placement in this area.) Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required 01 – Digital resources support: Provide creative and technical assistance for curated digital resources published regularly by the Center. Such products include two podcast series, Folklife Today and America Works, blog posts, Research Guides, and digital collections. Responsibilities may include collection research, interpretive writing, digital asset selection, editing, and/or file preparation. Examples available here: https://loc.gov/podcasts/ or https://guides.loc.gov/american-folklife. 02 – 50th Anniversary Programs Support: Assist staff in running public programs and initiatives that are part of the celebrating the Center’s 50th anniversary in 2026. Responsibilities may include reference work and/or collections exploration; public program staffing; or curatorial support for exhibitions or collection displays. 03 – Collections Processing: Work with AFC staff to support archival processing of multiformat collections, primarily including analog manuscript, photographic, and audio/visual materials. Responsibilities will include rehousing, labeling, metadata creation, and other tasks related to arrangement and description of a variety of archival materials. 04– Boxed Set Research: Support AFC staff in collections research and curatorial work for a proposed publication of audio materials from AFC collections. This publication would support the 2028 100th anniversary of the Archive of Folk Culture. Responsibilities will entail coordinating exploration of audio collection materials; identifying assets and collection materials for inclusion in the publication; developing interpretive and descriptive text; and general editorial assistance. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How did you learn about the Folklife Internship? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge and experience implementing archives and cultural heritage principles, tools, and technologies. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of and experience with multi-format ethnographic collections.&nbsp; Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Strong organizational skills Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate clearly and effectively to different audiences Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).