Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have experience performing the duties of a maintenance mechanic without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Do you have experience performing the duties of a maintenance mechanic without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the shift(s) for which you are available. (Please choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Day Shift: Sunday through Thursday, 6:00 am to 2:30 pm Evening Shift: Sunday through Thursday , 2:00 pm to 10:30pm Night Shift: Saturday PM through Thursday AM, 10:00 pm to 6:30 am 2 The incumbent of this position is designated as an &ldquo;Emergency Employee&rdquo;. Are you willing to report to work during emergencies and inclement weather conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which building systems have you independently maintained? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems (e.g., HVAC, pneumatic) Electrical systems HVAC systems None of the above 4 In which of the following trades do you have experience? Answer to this question is required HVAC Pipefitting Plumbing None of the above 5 Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience operating and maintaining utility systems. Answer to this question is required I independently perform corrective and preventative maintenance on boilers, chillers, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, compressors, and emergency power equipment. I operate the computer system to observe equipment readings and systems parameters. I am able to recognize abnormal conditions and situations from computer output, alarms, and printouts and proceed to restore the systems to a safe condition. I conduct inspection tours to check the operating conditions of mechanical and electrical equipment and gauges. I assist higher graded employees in performing work involved in operating and maintaining boilers, chillers, and auxiliaries. My experience is not reflected in the statements shown above. 6 Which&nbsp;of the following cooling and heating systems have you operated and maintained? Answer to this question is required Chillers (up to 500 tons) Compressorized condensing units Cooling towers Boilers None of the above 7 Which of the following electrical systems and equipment have you maintained and repaired? Answer to this question is required Uninterrupted Power Systems (UPS) Fire alarm systems Variable speed drives and electric motor starters for air conditioning systems Generators Automatic transfer switches (ATS) Electronic door entry control systems Computerized lighting control systems None of the above 8 Which components have you maintained or replaced? Answer to this question is required Steam Distribution Systems Heating Hot Water Systems Sprinkler Systems Chilled water lines None of the above 9 Choose the building systems for which you have performed routine or repetitive maintenance tasks? Answer to this question is required Commercial fire detection systems Piping systems (HVAC, pneumatic) Electrical systems HVAC systems None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to maintain electric automation systems? Answer to this question is required Repaired variable frequency drives Replaced electric motors Wired a 3-phase motor Adjusted the shiv on a motor Read RPMs and amperages on a motor Replaced current transducers None of the above 11 What experience do you have with fire alarm systems? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience impairing and restoring fie alarm system points. I have experience replacing fire alarm devices (e.g. pull stations, smoke detectors). I have experience investigating trouble and supervisory signals. I have experience resetting fire alarm panels. I do not have experience working with fire alarm systems. 12 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 14 Have you researched technical information or schematics to determine how to repair existing building equipment or mechanical systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.