Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a liaison on security related matters? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience serving as a liaison on security matters. I have education or training in this area, but have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have served as a liaison on security related issues as part of my job, but under close supervision. I have routinely and independently served as a liaison on security related issues as part of my job without supervision. I am highly skilled at serving as a liaison on security related issues, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert. 2 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of official travel? Answer to this question is required Coordinating travelers` requirements and / or special needs Assisting with Passport Applications Preparing Travel Itineraries Making hotel / car rental reservations Sending telegrams to relevant embassies for country clearance Creating travel authorizations / close out of travel authorizations Reconciling travel advances Providing on-site support during official visits Serving on advance teams to secure hotel accommodations Resolving complex or high-profile issues Screening volunteer staff for official travel events None of the above 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in support of international Presidential or Vice Presidential visits? Answer to this question is required I have played a supporting role in these visits. I have played a role in planning these visits. I have managed elements of the planning process for these visits. I have played a major or leading role in the planning of these visits. None of the above. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your background regarding policies and procedures governing national and international protocol? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience regarding the policies or procedures that govern national and international protocol. I have education or training regarding policies and procedures governing national and international protocol. I have routinely performed work regarding policies and procedures governing national and international protocol as part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work regarding policies and procedures governing national and international protocol as part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in performing work regarding policies and procedures governing national and international protocol, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 6 Which of the following types of activities have you planned? Answer to this question is required Conferences Speaking tours Public relations campaign Briefings Ceremony Product launch Exhibits None of the above 7 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or licensing issues to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential problems. Promoted an export control program to those whose activities are subject to it. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in planning, coordinating and establishing tracking systems or logs to monitor action items and office deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 10 From the list below, select the budget preparation and execution tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Followed an office budget which has been set by others. Tracked expenditures to monitor office budget compliance. Reconciled reports of obligations and expenditures with authorizations. Provided input used by others to construct an office budget. Independently constructed an office budget, which was adopted for use by your employer. Constructed a program budget, which was adopted for use by Program Manager. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.