Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the one answer that best describes your experience in a supervisory / managerial / leadership capacity, mediating complex personnel issues / problems / conflicts while working with a professional level staff. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 From the choices below, please select the one that BEST describes your experience developing and conducting formal training: Answer to this question is required I have independently developed and conducted formal training with little or no supervision. I have led a team in developing and conducting formal training. I have been on a team that developed and conducted formal training. Although my experience does not match any of the responses above, I do have similar experience. I have no education, training or experience in developing or conducting formal training. 5 Select the response that best describes your experince in office budget preparation and execution. Answer to this question is required Followed an office budget which has been set by others. Tracked expenditures to monitor office budget compliance. Reconciled reports of obligations and expenditures with authorizations. Provided input used by others to construct an office budget. Independently constructed an office budget which was adopted for use by your employer. None of the above. 6 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 7 Select the one response which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above. 8 What is the largest team that you have led to achieve work goals? Answer to this question is required Two to five people Six to ten people More than 10 people I have not led a team to achieve work goals 9 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.