Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 5 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have provided my expertise in guiding ethical collections stewardship; evaluated, incorporated, and communicated the latest developments in collections stewardship practice; and provided expertise in the design and implementation of organization-wide guidelines, policies, and procedures. I have provided advice on complex stewardship issues; used expertise to identify and resolve conflicts pertaining to collections procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies. I have made recommendations to develop effective collections policies and procedures and gathered information from internal and external stakeholders. I have education or training in writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works 6 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience in overseeing two-and-three-dimensional object collections? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of the principals and theoretical concepts of professional collections work to oversee museum collections, and collections planning and stewardship guidelines, processes, and procedures; and have partnered with leadership and staff to establish and implement collections stewardship initiatives. I have considered best practices when assessing collection stewardship processes and procedures; coordinated across the organization to determine resources to support goals; and worked with organization managers or employees to address mutual issues and concerns. I do not have experience overseeing two-and-three-dimensional object collections. 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of museum collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have moderate knowledge of museum collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have minimal knowledge of museum collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have no knowledge of museum collections management functions, standards, and practices, including those relating to collections transactions. 8 Which of the following describes your training or experience with legal and ethical issues relating to natural science and/or cultural collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated experience in legal and ethical issues relating to natural science collections through publications and presentations. I have demonstrated experience in legal and ethical issues relating to natural science collections through membership in technical working groups or professional societies. I have served as the lead responsible party for a large and complex natural history or cultural organization. I have experience in working with collections that present legal or ethical issues. I have experience in processing collections loans, acquisitions, and disposals according to regulations and ethical guidelines. I have had training in processing collections loans, acquisitions, and disposals according to regulations and ethical guidelines. I have no experience with legal and ethical issues in collections. 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in managing a team of employees or contractors to support technical museum collections information system needs? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience directing a team of federal and/or trust employees and contractors to support technical collections information system needs of a natural history museum. I have experience directing a team of federal and/or trust employees and contractors to support technical museum collections information system needs. I have familiarity but no direct experience with managing a team of employees or contractors to support technical museum collections information system needs. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience communicating regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have developed and communicated long-term strategic collections policies, procedures, and training; created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out collections program initiatives; and established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. I have communicated organizational collections policies and procedures and developed plans to address areas needing improvement; and reevaluated current procedures and suggested improvements to ensure strategic collections goals. I have developed project teams and staffing plans based on consideration of strategic collections objectives and developed collections-related training for staff. I have education or training in communicating regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience communicating regarding collections works. 11 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have recruited and hired staff. I have reassigned, demoted, or removed staff. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising a collections management staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising and training full-time collections management personnel engaged in acquiring, managing, and providing access to collections and collections-based research results, and I have established performance standards and performance plans and had formal performance evaluation responsibilities. I have experience as a work leader for teams or groups of collections management personnel, but have had no formal responsibility for performance evaluation. I have assisted in training new employees, interns, or volunteers. I have attended training courses in supervision or leadership. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience supporting organizational goal and objectives regarding collections works ? Answer to this question is required I have formulated collections objectives and priorities and implemented plans consistent with long-term strategic and operational goals and objectives. I have established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to assess adjust collections program direction. I have implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of organizational collections goals and objectives. I have conducted review of the organization’s goals and objectives and gathered information from relevant sources to support management directives. I have developed project teams and staffing plans based on consideration of strategic and operational objectives; and ensured team objectives are consistent with current and future management directives. I do not have experience regarding supporting organizational goal and objectives regarding collections works. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.