Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the choices below, please indicate the information technology specialty areas for which you have experience providing direction: Answer to this question is required National Intelligence Systems (NIS) Information systems Local Area Networks (LAN) Wide Area Networks (WAN) Cryptographic systems Client-based operating systems and/or applications Server-based operating systems and/or applications Network security requirements IT architecture policies None of the above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with information technology related policy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with policy research. I have education or training in policy research. I have reviewed organization-wide policy related to information technology. I have interpreted policy related to information technology. I have identified applicable policy related to my information technology area of responsibility. I have been part of a team that developed policy related to information technology. I have independently developed policy related to information technology. 3 Select the documents that you have written in support of information technology plans, programs, policies and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Budgetary justifications Test plans and procedures System evaluation reports Reports reflecting information technology trends, deficiencies, over- or under-utilization or similar matters Programming and funding documents to support information technology proposals Information technology proposals Directives Policies or policy recommendations Guides such as site plans, equipment specifications, or software characteristics Manuals, handbooks, job aids, and/or charts and graphs None of the above 4 Which of the following responses best reflects your level of experience in business process analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in business process analyses. I have assisted in describing and analyzing existing business processes. I have done business process analysis, describing existing processes and proposing new and better process and replacements. I have done business process analyses, describing both existing new processes and developed migration plans for shifting to the new one. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for an office or bureau. I have developed business process analyses and transition plans, and managed the integration of these analyses and plans into a target architecture for the Department. 5 I have performed the following project management tasks. (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Developed a comprehensive plan that included a project timeline and allocation of duties Assured accuracy of technical details by consulting with relevant experts Developed or approved project budget and/or forecast Negotiated project details with external individuals or organizations Tracked project progress Managed project staffing Served as a technical consultant and assisted in resolving technical issues Drafted and submitted progress reports Managed project's conclusion None of the above 6 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to lead a project with a group outside your immediate organizational unit? Answer to this question is required I have not been a project leader I was a lead on a project that only required working with others within my organizational unit I was a lead on a smaller, highly focused project that required working with representatives from different units outside my organizational unit I was a lead on a large, complex (multi-faceted) project that required working with many representatives from different units outside my organizational unit 7 Select the statement(s) that describe your work experience interacting with a variety of individuals in various situations to achieve program goals and/or solutions: Answer to this question is required I have independently solved program issues. I have routinely provided advice and assistance to individuals within my department. I have been regularly consulted by peers or other agency representatives on program issues. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have served on panels or committees. I have presented, defended, or negotiated program specific mission, goals, needs, or problems with senior management and/or contract representatives. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution. I have independently planned and conducted meetings. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical or programmatic issues. None of the above. 8 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 10 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics I have knowledge of, or education in information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics but no work experience I have monitored specific metrics and reported on them I have used and interpreted specific metrics and made decisions based on them I have developed performance measures and identified appropriate metrics View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.