Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections moves for a museum or similar cultural institution?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing tasks for a collections move. I have education or training related to collections moves but have not performed this task as a part of my job. I have participated in a collections move, assisting with logistics, object handling, and tracking movement. I have assisted in the coordination of a collections move, overseeing portions of tasks such as logistics, object handling, and tracking movement. I have managed all aspects of a large-scale collections move, coordinating work plans and schedules, and overseeing and tracking movement. 3 Which of the following activities related to project management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed project timelines and schedules. I have established and defined project milestones and deliverables. I have tracked progress against established project timelines and schedules. I have managed more than one project at a time. I have used software to aid in the development and tracking of project tasks and schedules. I have made adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your communication skills in relation to projects or teams? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as the primary point of contact for a team or project. I have maintained effective communication between team members to ensure successful completion of tasks. I have maintained effective communication within the team and with different levels of management to report on progress of projects. I have drafted written reports and correspondence. I have presented reports and analysis of projects to management and stakeholders. None of the above. 5 Which of the following list of collections management functions, standards, and practices do you have expertise in performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have monitored security and environmental conditions and recognizing conservation and preservation concerns. I have tracked objects and recorded information on their movement and location. I have handled and moved objects that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. I have set up, organized and maintained collections storage spaces. I do not have expertise with collections management functions, standards, and practices. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in using a museum collections information system? Answer to this question is required I have used Mimsy XG to query and record collections management data. I have used a museum CIS to query and record collections management data. I have used a museum CIS to query collections management data, but not record it. I have not used a museum CIS to query and record collections management data. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience with collections management functions, standards and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have moderate experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have minimal experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have education or training in collections management functions, standards, and practices, but have not used them on the job. I do not have experience or education in collections management functions, standards, and practices. 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience managing and leading a project team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have experience working as a member of a team. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned a formal leadership responsibility. I have overseen the work of others assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have experience leading teams that require solving complex problems, building cohesiveness among members, and effectively completing deliverables. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of subordinates. 9 Which of the following describes your experience planning and coordinating a major collections move project? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with multiple departments on identifying needs, finding vendors, and preparing statements of works or other procurement documents. I have worked with collections staff on logistics and supplies to ensure that supplies are available and equipment/supplies arrive in time to meet deadlines. I have worked with staff and vendors to have equipment and systems adjusted to meet the needs of the department. I have worked with senior staff, collections staff, and move staff on budget planning. I have worked with senior staff and move staff on personnel planning. I have worked on a collections move team preparing and planning for the movement of objects. I have no experience working on a collections relocation project. 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing contracts? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience in education or training in performing this task I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely. I have trained others to perform this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert of assistance in performing this task Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.