Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describe the types of work you have performed in a museum environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to a senior Museum Specialist. I have served as lead specialist on a museum-related project. I have supervised packaging, handling, and shipping from storage areas. I have supervised the handling of transfer items. I have overseen the storage and inventory of museum items. I have reviewed and updated museum collections records. I have no experience in performing this task. 3 Which of the following examples reflect your experience handling, storing, and packing museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience handling and storing 3-dimensional museum objects. I have experience handling and storing 2-dimensional museum objects including framed art. I have experience handling and storing textiles. I have made storage supports for 3-dimensional museum objects. I have made storage supports for 2-dimensional museum objects. I have packed museum objects for shipment. I have tracked the movement of museum objects using barcode scanners. I have tracked the movement of museum objects with paper records. I have participated in the installation and de-installation of large museum exhibits. I have training or education in storing museum objects. I have training or education in tracking museum objects. I have no experience or training in handling, storing, and packing museum objects. 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed regarding handling objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects for examination. I have crated or uncrated museum objects for transport or storage. I have designed handling museum apparatuses for objects. I have designed museum storage apparatuses for objects. I have handled large museum objects. I have used industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects. I have used common power and hand tools in a museum environment. I have no experience handling museum objects. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections moves for a museum or similar cultural institution?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing tasks for a collections move. I have education or training related to collections moves but have not performed this task as a part of my job. I have participated in a collections move, assisting with logistics, object handling, and tracking movement. I have assisted in the coordination of a collections move, overseeing portions of tasks such as logistics, object handling, and tracking movement. I have managed all aspects of a large-scale collections move, coordinating work plans and schedules, and overseeing and tracking movement. 6 Which of the following best represents your experience following instructions required to process museum or similar collections? Answer to this question is required I have worked independently to process collections I have worked as part of a team to process collections I have worked under supervision to process collections I have no experience in this area 7 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 8 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team settings and lead teams in work-related projects. I have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I do not have significant work experience working with teams. 9 Which of the following types of experience do you have packing and/or shipping fragile museum objects or collections? Answer to this question is required With a broad variety of museum objects and collections With particular types of museum collections (e.g., archeological artifacts, sculptures) With the packing and shipping of delicate or fragile objects With packing museum collections but not shipping them With shipping museum collections, but not packing them I do not have experience in either packing or shipping museum collections 10 Which of the following collections management functions do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conducting inventories of collections, according to established plans and procedures, and recording results of inventories in a collections information system. Arranging transport or shipping of museum collections. Packing collections according to professional standards of care and preparing documentation for outgoing shipments. Rehousing collections, using appropriate materials for preventative conservation. Answering public inquiries. Assisting researchers with access to the collections. Organizing or planning collections storage spaces, according to preservation and access needs. Working as a member of a multi-functional team (for example, working with curators, repatriation, and registration staff) to solve problems or contribute to a project. None of the above. 11 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing handling museum apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 12 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education, or training in maintaining pest management plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training maintaining pest management plans. I have completed formal education or training in maintaining pest management plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have maintained pest management plans on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have maintained pest management plans as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Maintaining pest management plans has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following collections documentation practices, have you regularly performed in your past work? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed shelf surveys/inventories. I have accurately recorded information using automated systems. I have adhered to data standards for collections management. I have assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records. I have independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records. I have no experience with collection documentation practices. 14 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used The Museum System (TMS) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with other collections information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or KE Software (EMu Systems). I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access). I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. I am unfamiliar with digital asset management systems and software. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.