Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst must possess the ability to effectively converse on a recurring basis with a wide variety of individuals, ranging from co-workers, institutions, regional offices, Central Office, applicants to high-ranking officials of the Department of Justice (DOJ), and other government agencies.&nbsp; He/she must be able to communicate with the Department of Justice (DOJ) hiring practices and requirements to a varied audience. He/she provides analysis and advice in the area of interpreting and responding to policy directives of the Bureau&rsquo;s Director.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have exchanged/disseminated information to management staff regarding personnel issues or equivalent; and/or I have interpreted various Department of Justice (DOJ) directives to organization management staff; and/or I have led a work group such as diversity, etc.; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline. I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have provided advice and direction regarding hiring practices to Human Resources staff; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from organization staff Bureau-wide. I have exchanged information with personnel from Department of Justice (DOJ)/other federal and non-federal agencies; and/or I have advised upper-management on matters relating to and/or other personnel issues, hiring practices, training requirements, and department policy; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to Bureau staff and others; and/or I have actively participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external contractors, private sector vendors, and various company officials; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officer (CEO’s), and provided recommendations for improvements on discrepancies noted. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, agency executives, managers, and line staff. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax, and format in order to effectively prepare/edit letters, papers for high level use.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have grammatically corrected correspondence prior to signature; and/or I have prepared re-occurring responses to internal inquiries; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes for management staff; and/or I have prepared draft policies; and/or I have prepared personnel actions. I have prepared legal recruitment materials; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue; and/or I have prepared positions descriptions; and/or I have conducted special studies and projects and briefed various officials; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have prepared written and/or edited responses to internal agency requests received; and/or I have composed memoranda to division managers and staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report. I have prepared memorandum to management staff explaining department directives; and/or I have prepared instructional material for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training; and/or I have reviewed and prepared internal documents/reports/correspondence which impacted operations or equivalent; and/or I have prepared reports/correspondence to outside entities. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs.&nbsp; He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met in a timely manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for the branch; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements for multiple projects; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for managers; and/or I have collected information and made recommendations to increase services provided to staff. I have planned and implemented specific Corporate projects from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the management goals; and/or I have managed multiple projects successfully to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for Executive Staff management; and/or I have organized the purchasing of resource (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.); and/or I have planned and coordinated various meetings and special projects which are designed to improve the operations and decision making process of the bureau or equivalent. I have planned processes to meet or complete normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for data processing; and/or I have managed accountable data for branch managers; and/or I have briefed supervisor on issues encountered in completing projects; and/or I have assisted on a team responsible for gathering data, evaluating practices, and making proposed changes aimed at increasing effectiveness of a program. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain good working relationships with staff at all levels both inside and outside the agency. &nbsp;He/she is expected to work with staff within various divisions, branches, and sections in order to complete projects assigned.&nbsp; Therefore, it is essential to possess excellent communication skills and build relationships in order to complete tasks.&nbsp; He/she must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Prisons (BOP), and other Federal, State, and local entities. He/she will also be required to interact with and develop and maintain professional relationship with the private sector.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing backgrounds and cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have worked with staff and others in developing training materials and schedules; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. I have assisted with a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings and presented information; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have recognized possible conflict and took corrective action before it escalated. I have coordinated, established, and maintained relationship with executive level agency/organization employees on complex issues; and/or I have assisted in recruitment activities at schools, job fairs, and other groups; and/or I have led a workgroup to develop and modify diversity initiatives; and/or I have proposed alternative solutions to management problems regarding position control and budgets. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst is involved in gathering and evaluating information on topics and issues having direct impact on legal operations Bureau-wide.&nbsp; The information gathered, analyzed, and prepared by him/her is used for a variety of purposes, such as keeping management abreast of issues and trends as they relate to hiring and retention, and personnel issues.&nbsp; He/she must analyze reports, surveys, data, and complex problems, determine inconsistencies, and inform management of issues needing attention.&nbsp; He/she also utilizes automated systems to perform analytical tasks, etc.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have performed detailed analyses to assure the completeness, accuracy, and currency of personnel related actions; and/or I have analyzed research and evaluation reports and made recommendations based upon the analysis; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated management information as it relates to budgetary control, personnel staffing; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have used a variety of resource venues to collect statistical data which was included in a major report. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Department of Justice (DOJ) statistical data regarding employment trends and presented findings to management staff; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variant techniques while involved in a trend study; and/or I have made suggestions/recommendations during the management assessment process. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have identified new recruitment strategies to address personnel needs; and/or I have made recommendations during a workgroup for policy issuance or modifications. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).