Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Skill in operating and maintaining materials handling and warehouse-related equipment and vehicles with safety and dexterity. ** Operated and maintained large materials handling equipment including: 1) sit-down forklift; 2) stand-up forklift; 3) order picker; 4) electric pallet jack; and 5) manual pallet jack in order to load, unload, move, transfer and transport goods, boxes, materials, supplies and library collections. Used power tools and manual tools to erect and dismantle shelving, pallet racks or storage units. Answer to this question is required Expert in the safe operation, advanced troubleshooting, and preventative maintenance of a diverse fleet of heavy material handling equipment in a high-volume environment. Extensive, independent experience designing or executing the complex assembly and teardown of large-scale, heavy-duty storage infrastructure, and trained or guided others in safety protocols and operational best practices. Fully proficient in independently operating a variety of powered material handling equipment (including forklifts and electric pallet jacks) to safely transport materials. Regularly use power and manual tools to assemble, reconfigure, or dismantle shelving units. Performed routine preventative maintenance and can identify basic equipment malfunctions. Basic experience using simple material handling equipment, such as manual pallet jacks, and hand tools to move supplies or assist with basic assembly. Required instructions or supervision to operate powered equipment (like forklifts or order pickers), build heavy-duty storage units, or perform equipment maintenance. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize computer technology in performing inventory management work. ** Leveraged systems and data capture technology&mdash;including mobile computers and barcode scanners&mdash;to maintain precise inventory control. Tracked the complete lifecycle of materials from initial receipt through intermediate storage. Answer to this question is required Independently tracked materials from the time they were received until they were distributed, using databases and spreadsheets to keep inventory records accurate. Led and trained other team members on the use of computer system and hardware devices. Independently tracked materials from the time they were received until they were distributed, using databases and spreadsheets to keep inventory records accurate. Under close supervision, tracked materials from the time they were received until they were distributed, using databases and spreadsheets to keep inventory records accurate. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to interpret and follow technical instructions, assembly specifications, and organizational guidelines for materials handling and storage. ** Ability to follow complex, multi-step instructions and technical schematics to accurately relocate collections, install shelving units, or execute space-reconfiguration projects according to specific design plans. Answer to this question is required Independently interpreted technical manuals, floor plans, and complex specifications to guide the workflow of a team. Identified and resolved discrepancies in instructions or safety protocols and provided guidance to others to ensure all material handling and storage tasks were completed accurately and safely. Independently followed the full range of complex instructions and technical specifications for receiving, storing, and transporting inventory. Demonstrated the ability to accurately execute detailed project plans—such as shelving installations or collection relocations—while strictly adhering to all organizational safety and regulatory requirements. Performed tasks by following clearly defined verbal and written instructions and safety regulations. Successfully followed handling guidelines for routine warehouse or storage functions, ensuring that materials were moved and stored as directed under general supervision. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact with others. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate processing, handling, and storing of materials and equipment in a supply or warehouse facility. Answer to this question is required Worked collaboratively with persons inside and outside the organization to discuss processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility and to ensure materials handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Worked collaboratively primarily with staff within an organization to discuss processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility and to ensure materials handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Worked collaboratively with colleagues and peers internal to the workgroup or division regarding processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).