Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 09 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements describe your research experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization to gather information. I have primarily worked with independent outside experts to gather information/ I have had discussions with staff within an organization on a specific topic. I gather most of my information through online research. I have read books and gathered information online on a particular topic. I do not have experience conducting research. 3 Which of the following reflects your knowledge of Native American culture, history, and art? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have completed college level course(s) in Native American studies. I have completed college level course(s) in Native American anthropology. I have completed college level course(s) in Native American art history. I have completed college level course(s) in Native American culture through academic research with Native Americans. I have assisted in writing educational material about Native communities or groups. I have conducted academic research with Native Americans. I have created educational materials (including papers, museum gallery guides, etc.) about specific Native communities or groups. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements describe your ability to execute and implement a public program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to organize colleagues, volunteers, or interns in the implementation of a program. I have assisted in the development and implementation of a public program. I have assigned work to colleagues, volunteers, or interns based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the personnel. I have developed and presented cultural programs in a museum environment. I have developed program handouts, informational materials for press, and informational calendars for developed public programs. I have developed outreach plans for the promotion of a public program. I have worked closely with Native Americans in the development and implementation of programs that correctly reflect their respective cultures. I have compiled evaluations and created final reports. I have introduced artists from the stage. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following responses best describes your experience with planning cultural public programs? Answer to this question is required I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center. I have not had experience, education, or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs. I have had education or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. I have had oversight for planning and executing culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. 6 Which of the following describes your experience planning, developing, and/or producing Native American cultural programs for multigenerational and multicultural audiences in museums, cultural centers, science centers, colleges/universities, and tribal communities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Selection of topic or theme for program. Selection of the type of program (lecture, demonstration, hands-on activity, performance, etc.). Identification and/or selection of personnel and presenters to participate in the program. Identification of the appropriate audience for the program. Development of the budget. Selection of appropriate support materials (visual aids, audio equipment, participant materials, etc.). Development and/or drafting of copy or content to accompany or augment the program. Development and/or drafting of marketing/advertising materials for the program. Recruitment and/or coordination activities of volunteers or staff to carry out the program. Coordination of logistics associated with program presenters (such as travel, lodging, honoraria, special needs, etc.). None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements demonstrate administrative support activities in which you have personally engaged? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as telephone changes, office moves, travel, time & attendance, and files maintenance. I have assisted a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) with contracts. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following reflects your experience providing administrative tasks in support of an office or organization. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received education or training on administrative policies, procedures, and techniques in order to provide general administrative services to an organization but have not performed it on the job. I have ensured compliance with budget/financial management laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures. I have explained or provided guidance on administrative laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or other customers. I have exercised independent judgment in interpreting and adapting available guidelines in order to complete administrative assignments. I have interpreted and applied Federal regulations in providing general administrative services to an organization. I have interpreted and applied regulations dealing with procurement and contracts. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment, or other items. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have served as primary source of information to management on the availability and cost of manpower resources. I have advised in matters of routine travel authorizations and vouchers using current travel software. I have NOT performed these job functions. 9 Which of the following written materials have you prepared in support of public or educational programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Correspondence arranging or confirming a presentation by a lecturer, demonstrator, or performer E-mails or administrative forms to request and confirm logistical arrangements (room reservations, security, AV services, vendor services, etc.) Calendar or web listings with short narrative describing a program Advertising copy Brochures or concert programs Postings for social media Instructions for hands-on workshops None of the above 10 Which of the following responses best describes your collaboration with others or work on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated collegially with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in collegially collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. I have had education or training in collegially collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following describes your experience or training in speaking with museum professionals, tribal representatives, scholars, and the general public? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have completed course work in oral communication. I have made oral presentations about arts and culture with museum professionals, tribal representatives, scholars, and the general public. I have made oral presentations in a museum setting about Native arts and culture with museum professionals, tribal representatives, scholars, and the general public. I have made oral presentations about Native film and culture of North, Central and South America with museum professionals, tribal representatives, scholars, and the general public. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.