Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the specialized experience requirement for this CT-14 position as listed in this vacancy announcement? (See section "Qualifications Required" of the vacancy announcement to read the specialized experience requirement.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response that best describes your education/experience background to meet the basic qualifications requirements for the Auditing, CT-0511-14, position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have a degree in accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. I have a combination of education and experience as listed under the qualifications section in the vacancy. I do not meet any of the education or education/experience combination options above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False The following situational judgement questions are designed to assess your mastery of key competencies. You will be presented with realistic scenarios that require technical expertise and sound judgement. Your task is to identify the requested course of action (most effective or least effective) for each situation. To ensure we identify the best-qualified candidates, there is no partial credit for responses that fail to identify the requested action.&nbsp;&nbsp; 6 You are leading an examination of a Derivatives Clearing Organization (DCO) that recently implemented a high-frequency collateral valuation engine. Initial testing shows the engine occasionally fails to pull prices during peak volatility. The DCO claims these are "known glitches" already being addressed by a future software patch. What is the best audit approach? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Accept the DCO’s timeline for the software patch and mark the item as "Resolved pending future review" to save resources for other exam areas. Expand the sample size of valuation events during high-volatility windows to quantify the potential margin under-collection and issue a finding based on the current risk exposure. Immediately halt the examination and recommend that the Director suspend the DCO’s registration until the patch is fully deployed. Request the internal audit report from the DCO and adopt their findings as your own to ensure consistency between regulatory and internal reports. 7 While conducting a field examination, you realize that the DCO&rsquo;s record-keeping for default auction simulations is disorganized and missing key timestamps required by Part 39 regulations. The Exam Lead is pushing for a quick wrap-up. What is the least effective way to handle this? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Issue a deficiency for record-keeping and require the DCO to reconstruct the timeline using secondary data sources. Document the missing information and include a recommendation for improved data governance in the final report. Allow the DCO to verbally explain the missing timestamps and omit the issue from the report to meet the internal deadline, assuming the auction logic itself was sound. Extend the onsite portion of the exam by two days to manually verify the missing data against the DCO’s audit trail logs. 8 While auditing the DCO&rsquo;s automated margin-call system, you find that the system failed to issue a call during a brief "flash crash" because the price feed was cut off. The DCO argues that since the market recovered within minutes, there was no actual loss, and therefore no audit finding is necessary. What is the most effective response? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;MOST&nbsp;EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Agree that since no financial loss occurred, the event does not rise to the level of a reportable deficiency. Issue a finding regarding "Operational Risk" and "System Safeguards," noting that the failure to issue a call during volatility represents a breakdown in the primary risk-mitigation function of the DCO. Require the DCO to manually check every margin call for the last six months to prove it won't happen again. Draft a new regulation for the CFTC Commission to vote on that specifically bans the use of that particular price feed provider. 9 You are three weeks into a six-week exam. Your team discovers a potential flaw in the DCO's "Recovery and Resolution" plan that wasn't in the original audit plan. Investigating it will likely delay the final report by a month. What is the least effective way to handle this new information? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Consult with the Exam Manager to see if the scope can be officially amended to include a targeted review of the flaw. Note the flaw as a "suggestion for future review" and pass the information to the next exam team. Instruct your team to work double-time to investigate the flaw "off-the-books" so you don't have to report a delay to HR or leadership. Document the potential flaw briefly in the current report but state that a full assessment was outside the current scope of work. 10 During a review of a DCO&rsquo;s financial statements, you notice a significant portion of their "Equity Capital" consists of intangible assets and inter-company receivables from a parent affiliate. You are concerned this overstates the liquid resources available for a default fund. What is the most effective action? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Perform a "haircut" analysis on the assets to determine the DCO’s true liquid capital and compare the results against the CFTC’s minimum financial requirement under Rule 39.11. Direct the DCO to change their accounting method from GAAP to a more conservative statutory accounting basis. Ignore the inter-company receivables as long as the parent company has a high credit rating from a major agency. Advise the DCO to issue more debt to increase their cash-on-hand before the final report is issued. 11 A DCO has reclassified certain "Restricted Cash" (intended for the default fund) as "Operating Cash" on their balance sheet to improve their liquidity ratios for a bank loan application. As a senior level Auditor, what is the least effective response? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Require a restatement of the financial figures in the examination workpapers to reflect the restriction. Flag the misclassification as a violation of financial resource reporting requirements. Approve the reclassification because it helps the DCO secure private funding, which indirectly strengthens the clearing system’s stability. Consult with a Senior Economist to determine if the reclassification impacts the DCO's risk profile. 12 During an audit of a DCO&rsquo;s financial resources, you discover they are valuing a portfolio of illiquid "Level 3" assets using an internal model that hasn't been back tested in two years. These assets represent 15% of their required default fund contribution. What is the most effective course of action? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Issue a finding requiring the DCO to perform an immediate independent valuation of the assets and mandate a formal back-testing schedule as part of their internal accounting controls Accept the current valuation but document a "memo to file" stating that the DCO should consider updating their model in the next fiscal year. Directly contact the DCO’s external auditors and demand they change their "unqualified" opinion on the financial statements. Apply a generic 50% "haircut" to the assets and move on to the next section of the exam to maintain the schedule. 13 A DCO is using "Intercompany Service Agreements" to offset their operating expenses, which artificially inflates their net income on the financial statements. As the Senior Auditor, what is the least effective way to address this accounting treatment? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Require a detailed breakdown of the intercompany charges to ensure they reflect "arm's length" transactions. Compare the DCO’s reported expenses against historical industry benchmarks to identify anomalies. Ignore the intercompany offsets since they are "paper entries" that don't affect the actual cash held in the clearing member default funds. Brief the Chief Analyst on the potential for "window dressing" in the DCO’s financial reporting. 14 You are presenting a critical finding regarding "Margin Breach Coverage" to the DCO&rsquo;s Board of Directors. The Board is defensive and argues that your mathematical model is "too theoretical" and doesn't reflect real-world trading. What is the most effective way to communicate your position? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Reiterate that as a federal regulator, your model takes precedence over their internal proprietary models. Present side-by-side data comparisons of your findings against recent market volatility events, demonstrating how their current margin levels would have been depleted. Soften the finding’s language in the report to avoid further confrontation with the Board. Refuse to engage in technical debate and inform them that they can appeal the finding through formal legal channels. 15 You are drafting the "Executive Summary" of a 50-page examination report for leadership. The exam found systemic failures in the DCO&rsquo;s cyber-risk program. What is the least effective way to write this summary? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the &lt;strong&gt;LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Use a high-level "Traffic Light" rating system (Red/Amber/Green) to quickly categorize the severity of the findings. Summarize the three most critical vulnerabilities and provide a clear timeline for expected remediation. Copy and paste the technical logs and raw data tables into the summary so the Director can see the full extent of the technical evidence themselves. Use clear, non-technical language to explain how the cyber vulnerabilities could lead to a disruption in clearing services. 16 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand, if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. &sect; 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).