Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service .&nbsp; This experience must include experience in the following areas: (a) Title IV of ERISA (b) bankruptcy and insolvency Law; (c) federal litigation; (d) administrative law; and (e) transactional Law.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Examples include: authoritative rendering of legal advice and services under Title IV of ERISA with respect to questions, regulations, practices, or other matters; review of proposed legislation, and evaluation of their effect on Corporation programs, policies, procedures, operations, and cases; drafting, negotiating, and examining legal documents; serve as a source of authoritative technical advice, guidance, and liaison on policy, legislative and regulatory matters relating to ERISA, including advice and litigation related to standard terminations. &nbsp; 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a J.D. degree from an ABA accredited law school? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Are you an active member of the bar (any jurisdiction) and in good standing? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).