Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience leading and overseeing other workers to accomplish masonry tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Choose the following tasks that you have performed when leading other masonry workers. Answer to this question is required Passed on instructions received from supervisors. Assigned immediate tasks to be performed. Ensured that needed plans, blueprints, materials, and tools were available. Answered questions for other workers on work procedures, policies, written instructions, and directives. Checked work while in progress and when finished to insure that the work was completed in accordance with instructions given. Ensured that work deadlines were met. Ensured that safety rules and guidelines were observed. None of the above. 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience repairing or installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience repairing or installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have set up the materials and equipment needed to repair or install installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have assisted others with the repair or installation of stones, bricks, or concrete, receiving hands-on supervision. I have independently repaired or installed stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have independently planned and laid out the installation of stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have independently planned and laid out the installation of stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete on high visibility projects (e.g., historical buildings, design focal points). 4 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing masonry tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees performing masonry tasks to ensure proper completion as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees performing masonry tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 5 Select the tasks that describe your experience in applying techniques and procedures when building structures of brick, block, and stone. Answer to this question is required Matching stone Repairing stone work Applying decorative finishes and details Cutting and shaping brick to complete corners Laying brick and block Setting stone on walls and partitions Cutting openings in walls Repointing with mortar and caulking compound Cutting, shaping, and finishing stone None of the above 6 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing masonry work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out masonry work using blueprints, specifications, drawings, and work orders. Calculated required materials using length, width, and depth mathematical calculations. Operated mortar mixer/concrete mixers. Used concrete saw and angle grinder to correctly size brick, stone, block, etc. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience squaring up a room for a masonry job? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the tasks you performed that demonstrated your use of materials in performing masonry work. Answer to this question is required Mixed mortar to match existing mortar and finish mortar joints so that the repaired portion matches the undamaged portion of the structure. Determined the amount of ingredients needed for mixing mortar and concrete to achieve desired consistency. Used mortar dye or other coloring methods to achieve desired finish. Matched existing historic surfaces. None of the above 9 Which of the following type(s) of materials have you used when performing masonry work: Answer to this question is required Sandstone Marble Granite Limestone Terrazzo None of the above 10 Which masonry materials have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required Block/brick structures Brick Veneer Hardiboards Decorative plaster pieces Marble slabs Granite slabs Glazed tile/brick Pre-cast concrete Slate tiles None of the above 11 Which tiles have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required Ceramic tiles Porcelain tiles Glazed tiles Marble tiles Granite tiles Vinyl tiles Quarry tiles None of the above 12 Do you have experience in performing masonry repairs on historic structures using a variety of applications (brick, stone, stucco)? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Select the tools you have used in performing masonry tasks: Answer to this question is required Brick trowel Gauge trowel Plumb bob Air hammers Hand hammers Chisels Crowbars Plaster Spoons Levels None of the above 14 Which power tools have you used to complete stone mason tasks? Answer to this question is required Core drill Diamond-tipped routers Stone polishing machines Table saw Track saw None of the above 15 Which brick/block masonry equipment have you independently operated? Answer to this question is required Masons Rule Mason Line Spade trowel Blocking chisel (cold & joint) Masons Hammer Jointers Steel square Level/laser level Plumb bob Brick set None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.