Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Toolmaker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have training to new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Toolmaker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for working with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institution. I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; provided supervision to confined individuals. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have stimulated the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems None of the above. 4 Toolmaker Supervisors must have the skill and knowledge needed to operate the tool and die/sheet metal shop and to design and produce hard press tooling. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a set-up man and Computer Numerical Control (CNC) operator in a large production shop or have served as an instructor in a formal training program for machinists. I have completed an apprenticeship in the trade and followed with well rounded working experience. I have performed simple operations (e.g., lathe or press brake work); and/or I am an advanced learner or graduate of a trade school with little experience. None of the above. 5 Toolmaker Supervisors must have the ability to do theoretical, precise and detailed work of the tool and die/sheet-metal fabrication trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have graduated from a trade school and have studied blueprint reading, tool and die fabrication, and/or sheet-metal fabrication but have little experience in the set-ups or special machining techniques. I have experience as a journeyman with good training and working experience in tool and die and sheet-metal fabrication; and/or I have operated effectively with all standard and Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machine shop equipment. From manufacturer's or military blueprints, I have set up and operated machines and produced complex parts such as multi station hand press tooling; and/or I have experience troubleshooting shop machines (lathes, grinders) to original specifications, to include mechanical and electrical repairs. None of the above. 6 Toolmaker Supervisors must have the ability to analyze and interpret, mechanical, engineering and technical drawings and other drawings of mechanical objects well enough to understand dimensions, shapes, materials, and finishes. They must also be able to supply missing computations and other details not furnished, and redline and correct drawings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in an experimental shop where prototype models were produced; and/or I have utilizing mechanical, engineering and technical drawings for the development of Computer Numerical Control (CNC) computer programs. I have worked as a machinist or sheet-metal man in a shop producing a wide variety of commercial, industrial or government materials; and/or I have set up and adjusted lathes, punch presses, or other materials for semi-skilled machine or sheet-metal operations. I have experience in machine shop work which seldom involved independent use of difficult drawings or subsequent machine operations. None of the above. 7 Toolmaker Supervisors must have the ability to perform layout work from mechanical, engineering and technical drawings, manufacturers specifications, military drawings or preliminary sketches and to operate/set-up machine operations to produce required items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read and interpreted mechanical, engineering and technical drawings and performed sheet metal/tooling fabrication, under close supervision. I have interpreted specifications from mechanical, engineering and technical drawings; and/or I have determined materials needed for a wide range of typical machine shop and sheet-metal jobs; and/or I have laid out work and carried it through completion, making adjustments and corrections without assistance; and/or I have made my own drawings, laid out and produced journeyman level work in sheet-metal or hard tooling form from sketches and verbal instructions. I have produced metal parts or assemblies such as dies and pouches, multi-station die sets, and prototype sheet-metal items requiring precision machining and/or forming from mechanical, engineering and technical drawings or material specifications; and/or I have transferred Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machine operations of detailed tooling drawings and/or designed conceptual tools. None of the above. 8 Toolmaker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand tools for various degrees of precision and difficulty in tooling and sheet-metal fabrication. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used micrometers, dial calipers, depth gauges, Coordinate Measuring Machine (CMM) and other hand tools to produce metal articles with tolerances between .001 inch and 1/64th inch; and/or I have finished ground, heat treated, demurred ferrous and non-ferrous metal parts. I have experience doing precision work on tools, dies, or sheet-metal items with hand tools; and/or I have experience with high precision fabrication or repair of critical metal articles involving skilled use of hand tools; and/or I have manufactured and assembled welding fixtures used to build production parts. I have fabricated simple hard tooling, welding fixtures, and sheet-metal parts with detailed supervision. None of the above. 9 Toolmaker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the properties of the metals used in an advanced tooling design and sheet-metal proto-type shop. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have successfully worked in a Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machine shop doing a variety of repair and maintenance on press tooling, using a wide range of ferrous and non-ferrous metals. I have designed and fabricated parts which required Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machining, surface hardness, and annealing; and/or I have adjusted heat treatments and hardening processes according to ultimate use of metal parts; and/or I have used hardness testing equipment. I possess limited working knowledge of alloys, fabrication processes or tool and die material selections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).