Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 Carefully read the following statements A through B which outline the Basic Requirements for Architect positions. BASIC REQUIREMENTS: may be met by either A or B as further defined in B-1 or B-2: Degree in architecture or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. Combination of education and experience--college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by at least B-1 or B-2 below. B-1: Degree in architectural engineering may be accepted as satisfying in full the basic requirements, provided the completed course work in architectural engineering provided knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in paragraph A. B-2: 1 year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of such experience is required. This experience must have demonstrated that the applicant has acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. 1 In order to meet the basic requirements for the Architect job series, applicants must meet the criteria in A or B above. Please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements described in A above. I meet the requirements of B as further defined by B-1. meet the requirements of B as further defined by B-2. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. In addition to the Basic Requirements, all candidates must possess at least one year of specialized experience. Specialized experience is defined as professional architecture experience in classically and traditionally designed architecture for construction or alteration projects involving large and complex buildings as well as coordinating the activities of multidisciplinary teams on such projects. Experience must include specialized knowledge in classical architecture, to assist in developing organizational procedures, advise on architectural standards, and provide guidance during design evaluations and/or design juries. This experience should also include planning, prioritizing, and evaluating work to be accomplished by diverse teams; and providing advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on issues related to the execution of design(s). 2 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have demonstrated experience managing complex architectural design in excess of $300 million dollars, in applying state-of-the-art principles and practices of classical and traditional design as well as construction project management, to deliver large and small capital construction projects through all stages of project development and this is reflected in my resume. Answer to this question is required True False 4 I have demonstrated knowledge and skill in applying theories, innovative concepts of classical and traditional professional architecture during portfolio requirements and design evaluations and this is reflected in my resume. Answer to this question is required True False 5 This position requires registration as a professional architect. Are you currently registered as a professional architect? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).