Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide reference and research services. ** Provided reference and research services by: 1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; 2) analyzing and evaluating user needs and requirements; 3) informing users of resources available and making recommendations; 4) formulating search strategies; 5) executing search strategies using various library systems and resources; 6) making appropriate referrals to related library collections and repositories; and 7) facilitating services for researchers, including registration procedures, filling out call slips, and completing duplication requests. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, provided reference and research services through the execution of ALL of the above tasks in a professional library setting. Independently or with minimal supervision, provided reference and research services through the execution of FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the tasks listed above in a professional library setting. Independently or with minimal supervision, provided reference and research services through the execution of FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above in a professional library setting. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to develop and manage research collections. ** Used the principles, concepts, and techniques of collection development and management to provide access to authoritative information resources, including: 1) building and sustaining research collections, including suggesting items for acquisition, maintaining contacts with potential donors, and/or supporting descriptive activity for acquisitions; 2) managing physical and electronic information resources, including identifying requirements, evaluating relevant and authoritative information resources, and analyzing the use of resources; 3) promoting the use of library catalogs and information resources, including coordinating training and troubleshooting access problems; and 4) developing and implementing information tools and services, including customized and emerging digital services. Answer to this question is required Responsible for, and provided leadership for, the full range of collection development and management activities including ALL of the above in a professional library setting. Responsible for a range of collection development and management activities including THREE (3) of the above in a professional library setting. Responsible for a range of collection development and management activities including TWO (2) of the above in a professional library setting. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of folklife, oral history, military history, and/or related fields. ** Knowledge of folklife, oral history, military history, and/or other related subject areas to perform reference duties in support of a library and/or collection. Answer to this question is required Has advanced and thorough knowledge of folklife, oral history, military history, and/or related fields to perform complex research duties. Has knowledge base sufficient to plan and administer major professional research project(s) on ethnographic archives and provide professional services for public programs on folklife or related subjects. Has thorough knowledge of folklife, oral history, military history, and/or related fields to perform moderately complex research duties. Has knowledge base sufficient to plan and coordinate small to medium research projects and provide specific professional services for public programs on folklife or related subjects. Has some knowledge of folklife, oral history, military history, and/or related fields to perform relatively routine research duties in a professional or collegiate setting. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation, outreach, and liaison services. ** Provided consultation and liaison services to exchange information with people inside and outside the organization. Develops, promotes, facilitates, and presents programs to meet the anticipated needs of researchers and other user communities. Answer to this question is required Developed contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships with individuals inside and outside the organization, recommended changes in procedures or workflows, and explained information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject. Maintained contacts and/or cooperative work relationships, recommended changes in procedures or workflows to others, and explained technical information to individuals or groups. Maintained contacts or cooperative work relationships and presented information to groups and individuals with a similar understanding of the subject. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to utilize information technology to perform library services. Utilized knowledge of library and information science, integrated library systems, computer technology, and software applications such as: 1) integrated library systems (e.g., Folio, ArchiveSpace); 2) word processing, spreadsheets, and document management software (e.g., MS Word, Excel, Adobe); 3) email and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook); and 4) online databases. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience using ALL of the above tools and technologies in a professional library setting. Demonstrated experience using THREE (3) of the above library tools and technologies, including 2) in an academic or professional library setting. Demonstrated experience using at least TWO (2) of the above library tools and technologies, including 2), in an academic or professional library setting. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing . Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products such as: 1) correspondence relating to reference and research inquiries; 2) subject guides and finding aids; 3) reports, such as usage reports; 4) collection evaluations; 5) presentations; 6) social media posts; and 7) professional publications. Answer to this question is required Independently, with minimal supervision researched, analyzed, and wrote AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above documents. Independently, with minimal supervision researched, analyzed, and wrote FOUR (4) of the above documents. Independently, with minimal supervision wrote THREE (3) of the above documents. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).