Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide collection metadata workflow, evaluation and analysis.** Planned, coordinated, and established operating methods and procedures and improvements designed to accomplish and improve the business mission in areas, such as work processes, manpower, productivity, policies, procedures, and work improvement. In doing so, executed the following tasks: 1) reviews existing collection data metadata workflows to identify potential problems or areas for improvement, 2) performs quantitative and qualitative analysis, 3) develop potential solutions, 4) performs analysis of the pros and cons of each solution and makes recommendations using sound justifications, 5) evaluate the impact of new or revised policies and procedures on existing programs, and 6) manages projects. Answer to this question is required As an expert in the development and/or interpretation of guidance on program planning and evaluation in a complex collection environment, independently executed ALL of the following tasks: 1) reviews existing collection data metadata workflows to identify potential problems or areas for improvement, 2) performs quantitative and qualitative analysis, 3) develop potential solutions, 4) performs analysis of the pros and cons of each solution and makes recommendations using sound justifications, 5) evaluate the impact of new or revised policies and procedures on existing programs, and 6) manages projects. As an expert in the development and/or interpretation of guidance on program planning and evaluation, independently executed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. As an expert in the development and/or interpretation of guidance on program planning and evaluation, independently executed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to manage special projects and conduct management studies and reviews.** Managed special projects and conducted management reviews and studies including: 1) identifying and collecting financial or budget data from various sources; 2) evaluating information gathered; 3) formulating findings, conclusions and recommendations; 4) presenting results and 5) conducting quantitative analysis of budgetary data. Answer to this question is required Independently managed numerous complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups with conflicting goals, intricate or entrenched business processes, etc.) special projects and conducted management studies and reviews of issues impacting an entire ORGANIZATION/BUSINESS/AGENCY. This included performing ALL of the tasks listed above. Independently managed numerous complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups, inefficient business processes, etc.) special projects and conducted management studies and reviews of issues impacting multiple BUSINESS UNITS. This included performing ALL of the tasks listed above. Independently managed complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups, inefficient business processes, etc) special projects and assisted with conducting management studies and reviews of issues impacting a single BUSINESS UNIT. This included performing items 1-4 of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions.** Developed, planned, and analyzed strategies necessary to coordinate and solve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely identified and analyzed highly complex or unusual issues having a significant impact on program administration in a library or other cultural heritage institution. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and assured that program goals were met and that policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. Identified and analyzed issues having a significant impact on program administration in a professional setting. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions and made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Ensured program goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. As part of a team, performed a key role in analyzing and resolving issues having a significant impact on program administration in a professional setting. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions and made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to supervise, motivate and lead a workforce. Supervised, motivated and led a team. In so doing, performed the following tasks: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production and accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved and disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates for positions, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality, 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging a high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory responsibilities including NINE (9), TEN (10), or ALL of the above. Exercised leadership responsibilities including SIX (6), SEVEN (7), or EIGHT (8) of the above. Exercised leadership responsibilities including THREE (3), FOUR (4), or FIVE (5) of the above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to apply business acumen. Applied business principles, methods, and processes (e.g., strategic plan development, operation plans, asset management, financial analysis) to transform business processes, solve problems and enhance customer satisfaction, especially in libraries or other cultural heritage institutions. This included creating business cases that improved efficiency, using appropriate measures to monitor expenditures and determined performance against requirements. Answer to this question is required Managed a program(s) supporting regional/national program priorities for a library or cultural heritage institution. Used a variety of analytical tools and/or methods for program evaluation that resulted in recognized improvements to program delivery. Managed and accounted for resources; ensured accountability for mission accomplishment; stayed within scope and delivered results on projected timelines; and independently took appropriate and timely action to mitigate program issues due to unforeseen circumstances. Planned, developed, and implemented a program(s) of significant interest to the public and/or agency. Resolved issues and achieved results by identifying, diagnosing, and consulting on issues that were barriers to mission accomplishment. Managed and accounted for resources; and made appropriate and timely intervention decisions and coordinated with the appropriate decision maker(s) to mitigate unforeseen circumstances. Wrote policy guidelines, long-term proposals, and strategic position papers that were recognized as conceptual analyses of issues of major importance for an organization and/or agency. Performed as an effective business manager who assigned and accounted for resources; developed clear and realistic performance goals; met outside financial auditing standards; generated more than adequate revenues to cover overhead and expenses for fee for service operations or for profit enterprises; and took appropriate and timely actions to intervene in resource allocation due to unforeseen circumstances. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote various clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents related to operations management such as: 1) administrative reports, 2) analytical reports, 3) study proposals, 4) project plans, 5) annual reports, 6) program highlights, 7) strategic and risk analyses, 8) position papers, and 9) explanation of complex quantitative information. Answer to this question is required Has independently written ALL of the above documents related to operations management for various audiences, including senior executives, managers, supervisors, and non-technical individuals. Has independently written SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above documents related to operations management for various audiences. Has independently written SIX (6) of the above documents related to operations management for various audiences. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).