Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-11.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as follows: Experience developing clear and concise written responses, reports, fact sheets, tables, summaries, and/or various other documents. Experience assisting in the development of new methods of organizing and disseminating information and data. (remove for GS-11) Experience responding to a variety of written and oral, in-person, and telephone inquiries that require extensive research of various rules and regulations. Experience multi-tasking in a variety of manners including but not limited to reviewing agenda items, identifying issues and making recommended edits to written agency or organization decisions. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as demonstrated above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-13 In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-12.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as follows: Experience evaluating and conducting in-depth analysis regarding new techniques and methods to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the organization. Experience presenting and explaining detailed and complicated statistical information and puts technical, hard to understand information into simple easy to understand concepts. Experience developing technical requirements for database system design and development. Experience reviewing, for the purposes of quality assurance, clear and concise written responses, reports, fact sheets, tables, summaries, and various other documents in support of the Commission's programs. Experience providing expert advice and guidance on the use of electronic and database system resources and new technologies to FCC staff and high-level management. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as demonstrated above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 I am a current employee at the FCC. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).