Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 This position is temporary. Are you willing to work in a temporary role? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 If considered for this position, which of the following shifts are you available to work (select all that apply): Answer to this question is required Day Shift Evening Shift Night Shift All Shifts None of the above 4 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which of the following best describes your highest level of electrical trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journey-level Electrician On-the-job training Master Electrician None of the above 6 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining electrical systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of electrical systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with electrical systems under direct supervision from others. I have trained others on the procedures for performing electrical work. I have independently maintained electrical systems. None of the above. 7 Select the types of test and measuring equipment you have operated and maintained. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply.&nbsp; Analog and digital multi-meters Electronic test equipment Insulation testers Oscilloscopes Fault locators High-voltage test equipment Computer-based test equipment Chart recorders Electrical test equipment None of the above 8 Which of the following responses best describe your knowledge and experience with low voltage switchgear, transformers, and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have extensive electrical knowledge and experience. I have intermediate electrical knowledge and minimal experience. I have basic knowledge and have assisted journey-level electricians. I have no electrical knowledge or experience. 9 I have read and interpreted electrical drawings to perform the following tasks. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; To install electrical fixtures. To repair electrical equipment. To repair electrical circuits. To add on or extend electrical circuits. To assemble electrical equipment. To determine manufacturer's specifications. None of the above. 10 Select the area(s) where you performed the work independently and with little supervision. Answer to this question is required Used electrical and schematic diagrams to troubleshoot electrical equipment. Installed and repaired lighting systems (Lutron dimmable ballast, LED dimming systems, HID lights, computerized lighting systems). Installed conduit up to 2" RGS or EMT. Installed, repaired, and performed troubleshooting of lighting circuits, receptacle circuits, low voltage, and motor circuits. Installed new electrical lines - 120V, 208V, and 480V. Installed new electrical fixtures (CFL, LED, and Lutron dimmable ballast systems). Performed system start-up and check out for VFDs, and addressable lighting systems. None of the above 11 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial buildings independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Select the responses that demonstrated your ability to read, interpret, and revise schematic drawings and other documentation. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Created, maintained, and modified drawings and sketches. Identified, read, and interpreted power distribution drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted instrumentation and communication drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted electrical drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted relay, solid state, and logic drawings and specifications. None of the above. 13 Which hand and power tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Voltage testers Amp meters Circuit traces Meggers Cable pullers Hydraulic benders Pipe threading machines None of the above 14 Select the responses that demonstrate your ability to install, maintain, and repair wiring systems. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Selected, laid out, and installed circuit wiring for power and lighting. Performed troubleshooting of circuit wiring for power and lighting. Selected, laid out, and installed cable trays for power, data, and communication cable wiring systems. Selected, laid out, and installed feeder cables for single and multi-conductor cables, metallic and non-metallic cables. Selected, laid out, and installed rigid Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC). Selected, laid out, and installed electric heating systems. Selected, laid out, and installed wiring for hazardous locations. Selected, laid out, and installed overhead distribution systems. Selected, laid out, and installed underground distribution systems. None of the above. 15 In which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light Commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 16 Select the types of electrical problems you have experience trouble shooting. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; No power from outlets/lights Motor control issues (e.g., flow switch, timing relay) Exhaust fan motor issues Computerized lighting issues (e.g., program glitches) Circuitry malfunctions None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.