Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Regional Employee Development Administrator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to management officials and others both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp;They regularly meet with others to interpret and resolve issues affecting training and employee and career development in the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed cooperative relationships on behalf of the region with other Federal agencies, state and local government, educational institutions, or private industry; and/or I have provided counseling and advisory service to all levels of staff concerning upward mobility, employee development activities, and job opportunities; and/or I have served as a liaison/expert to senior management and others on possible training options; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies personnel regarding comments to a proposed policy. I have provided guidance to supervisors and managers in the proper resolution of training issues; and/or I have taught national training courses on HR programs; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/upper management/chief executive offices, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have trained supervisors on local instructor skills. I have advised upper management/chief executive officer and others on training policy requirements; and/or I have provided formal training to staff on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have counseled an employee on training opportunities. None of the above. 5 Regional Employee Development Administrator&nbsp;are responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups.&nbsp;They must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, federal officials, agency executives, managers, line staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a program review response or external audits; and/or I have revised local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report or internal audit; and/or I have written Congressional responses for management on local issues. I have prepared performance evaluations; and/or I have written lesson plans for a training class; and/or I have written position evaluation statements; and/or I have authored justifications for employee training; and/or I have prepared justification for employee reimbursement of training associated costs. I have written documentation which justified agency/institution/organization action during a third party hearing or audit; and/or I have written agency/institution/organization response to a FOIA or Government Accountability Office (GAO); and/or I have independently prepared written proposals for new training initiatives; and/or I have developed or assisted in the development of regional policy (based on national directives); and/or I have developed policy suggestions for Headquarters’ consideration; and/or I have independently written/prepared technical documentation and correspondence relating to training which were utilized without change; and/or I have developed course outlines, lesson plans, course schedules and reports used in management or human resource training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments; and/or I have assisted others in preparing a highly technical report/document. None of the above. 6 Regional Employee Development Administrator&nbsp;are responsible for directing, reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs relative to program areas.&nbsp;They review, analyze and evaluate employee development programs within the region, to determine their quality and overall effectiveness.&nbsp;They are required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have maintained administrative records and training tacking system to ensure that those in collateral duty positions (i.e., Training Coach, self-defense instructor and firearms instructors) have completed mandatory training; and/or I have evaluated training provided by external vendors; and/or I have planned meetings with others interested in providing training to employees. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local training procedures; and/or I have participated on agency workgroup designed to analyze training trends and employee development; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have conducted region-wide as well as individual needs assessments; and/or I have analyzed training programs and recommended changes and modification in policy having agency-wide implications; and/or I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used various automated systems to gather statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding. I have determined training characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. None of the above. 7 Regional Employee Development Administrator must manage and advise on the following employee development programs: local training and employee development functions, Staff Mentor Program, training needs assessment/annual training plans, career development, and in-service educational activities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a Human Resource professional, I have served as a liaison providing training to field support; and/or I have overseen the tracking of mandatory training standards; and/or I have advised a field office on training issues; and/or I have maintained training curriculum in accordance to policy; and/or I have identified instructors and organized course materials for training classes; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs; and/or I have made recommendations regarding a new training program. I have analyzed class evaluation forms and made modifications to curriculum or presentations as needed; and/or I have provided training/guidance to local executive staff; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials, or training aids for use in existing training programs; and/or I have conducted formal training course for managers on leadership and training requirements; and/or I have conducted training staff assist/operational/program reviews or internal/external audits; and/or I have worked with a supervisor to address training concerns to improve employee performance. I have developed short and long term curriculum plans for training; and/or I have briefed top management on major training initiatives and recommended options for local or regional implementation; and/or I have initiated studies to determine the immediate and long range training needs of an institution; and/or I have identified ways that training can assist in solving problems of morale, excessive turnover, low production and under-utilization of employees’ skills and abilities; and/or I have reviewed and evaluated the quality of employee development programs; and/or I have developed annual training plans to assure adequate training for all staff; and/or I have trained and developed in-house trainers and instructors in teaching concepts and techniques, as well as, the use and maintenance of all classroom equipment. None of the above. 8 Regional Employee Development Administrator must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee development program.&nbsp;They research innovative training methods, career development, and staff mentoring to staff within their respective region. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve an issue concerning training; and/or I have drafted a local institutional supplement on employee development; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment of employee development functions to determine needed changes to policy. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured staff completed mandatory training; and/or I have explained training requirements to vendors interested in providing training to employees. I have served as a reviewer-in-charge for an employee development operational review or internal audit; and/or I have provided guidance to new employee development staff regarding training policy and monitored their work to ensure compliance with policies and regulations; and/or I have participated as a member of an employee development program review team comparing current practice against policies and procedures. None of the above. 9 Regional Employee Development Administrator must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations.&nbsp;They are charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union resident/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have authored a response to items identified in a corrective action plan to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have improved a process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).