Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describe your highest level of experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electrical systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training performing these tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but have not yet performed these tasks on the job. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I am regarded as an expert in performing these tasks, and/or have trained others on how to perform the tasks. 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for or in collaboration with subordinates Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and required personal protective equipment (PPE) Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Made promotion decisions Interviewed job applicants for hire Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Recommended personnel actions Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 3 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees Inspected work site for job hazards Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Developed work improvement plans Provided feedback to employees on methods or techniques None of the above 4 Do you have experience managing the performance of subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience testing and maintaining emergency generators, uninterrupted power supplies, and emergency electrical systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Please select the area(s) where you have performed work independently and with little supervision: Answer to this question is required Use electrical and schematic diagrams to troubleshoot electrical equipment. Install and repair lighting systems (Lutron dimmable ballast, LED dimming systems, HID lights) Install conduit up to 2" RGS or EMT. Install, troubleshoot and repair lighting circuits, receptacle circuits, low voltage, and motor circuits Installing new electrical lines 120, 208V and 480V Installing new electrical fixtures (CFL, LED and Lutron dimmable ballast systems) System start-up and check out for VFDs, and addressable lighting systems High Voltage switch gear inspections including thermal imaging of key components, troubleshooting failed components, and performing corrective actions as needed. None of the above 8 Do you have experience performing troubleshooting, maintenance, diagnosis, inspection, repair, overhaul, and installation of complex electrical distribution equipment and systems including work on energized high-voltage equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which of the following professional certifications do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Apprentice Journeyman Certified Electrician Master Electrician None of the above 10 Which tool(s) have you used to ensure safe and correct operation of high voltage cables, electrical distribution equipment, and electric powered end devices independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Multi-meters Circuit Trace Locators Circuit Identifiers Battery and Electrical System Analyzers Meggers Phase Rotation Meters Gas Monitors Battery Cell Tester None of the above 11 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install fittings Install relays Install boxes Install circuit breakers None of the above 12 Do you have experience working as a Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) or Contracting Officers Representative (COR)? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Do you have experience managing an electrical safety program including creating and enforcing LOTO procedures, PPE guidelines, and training requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.