Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following licenses do you currently hold? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Class 1 Steam Engineer License National Institute for the Uniform Licensing of Power Engineer (NIULPE) First Class Power Engineer License Equivalent Stationary Engineer License Universal CFC Certification License Underground Storage Tank (UST) Operators License None of the above 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees performing power plant operations. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees performing power plant operation tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I led employees by overseeing the duties assigned by the supervisor to ensure that tasks were performed properly. I supervised employees by assigning work and managing their performance. None of the above. 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Acted on disciplinary matters. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Led daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 5 Have you performed water testing to determine the chemicals and amounts needed to treat water for utility system use (e.g., boiler, refrigeration)? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using a distributed or digital control system (DCS) or other automated plant control system? Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and reported DCS information to assist senior workers. I have implemented changes to systems as directed by senior workers based on DCS information. I have made decisions on how to change systems based on DCS information without supervision. I have provided instruction and guidance to others on how to read and operate a DCS. None of the above. 7 Which written documents have you read and interpreted to perform work? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Piping and Instrumentation Diagrams (P&ID) Preventative maintenance procedures Start up/shut down checklists Manufacturer specifications Technical manuals Equipment manuals Schematics None of the above 8 Select the maintenance activities you have performed that are related to power plant/utility system operations. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Adjusted control valves Lubricated operating equipment (e.g., pumps, motors) and selected proper lubricant Replaced or adjusted belts (e.g., fan belts) Made temporary modifications/repairs to piping Changed out or cleaned fuel oil burners or changed burner gaskets Changed filters (e.g., oil filters, air filters) Adjusted or replaced valve packing None of the above 9 Select the boiler issues you have experience trouble shooting. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Flame failure Unstable flame Valve malfunctions Loss of fuel flow Draft fluctuations (high/low) Boiler tube leaks Ash system malfunctions Flame scanner malfunctions Abnormal sounds/noises or vibrations Low/high drum level Loss of feedwater Abnormal emissions None of the above 10 Select the steam plant operations you have experience with performing. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Starting/shutting-down industrial boilers (capacity of 100,000 pounds/hour or more) Starting/ shutting-down industrial boilers (capacity of 50,000 pounds/hour or more) Shifting an industrial boiler from natural gas to fuel oil burning operations Shifting an industrial boiler from natural gas to coal burning operations Shifting feedwater from an electric-driven pump to a steam-driven pump Blowing down a boiler None of the above 11 Select the chiller plant operations you have experience with performing. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Starting/stopping industrial chillers (capacity > 5,000 tons) Starting/stopping industrial chillers (capacity > 2,500 tons) Placing a cooling tower in operation Blowing down a cooling tower Shift from Primary-Secondary operation to Variable-Primary operation Aligning the system for Free-Cooling operation None of the above 12 Select the machinery and equipment you have experience with operating and monitoring for operation within proper operating limits. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Steam Turbines Compressed Air Systems Combustion Turbines/Gas Turbines Heat Recovery Steam Generator Electric Power Generation Diesel Engine Fuel Oil offloading, transfer and storage systems Ash Removal Systems Bag House, Precipitators, and/or Flue Gas Scrubbers None of the above 13 Select the steam plant and chiller plant chemistry conditions you have experience with monitoring and controlling to maintain proper operating limits. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required pH Hardness Conductivity Chlorine residual Biocides Dissolved solids Alkalinity Water softness None of the above 14 Select the safety programs and equipment you have experience with enforcing and operating. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Lockout/Tagout (LOTO) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) Aerial Lifts Forklifts Crane operations Fire Protection Systems OSHA 1910 None of the above 15 Select the sensors and monitoring equipment you have experience with operating. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required IR thermometers IR scanners Refrigerant leak detectors Combustible gas leak detectors Conductivity/pH meters Vibration detection equipment Differential pressure equipment Differential temperature equipment None of the above 16 Select the environmental programs and equipment you have experience with enforcing and operating. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Baghouse Particulate Filtration System Outfall Neutralization Systems Refrigerant Leak Detection and Monitoring Requirements Continuous Opacity Monitoring System (COMS), Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS), and Data Acquisition and Handling System (DAHS) Calibration Gas Accuracy (CGA), Relative Accuracy Tests (RATA), and Pollutant Specific Stack Testing Title V Air Permits, Plant Wide Applicability Limit (PAL) Air Permits , and Chapter 2 (Construction) Air Permits Waste Water Discharge Permits Hazardous Waste Storage, Disposal, and Labeling Requirements None of the above 17 Which activities have you performed using a computer? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Created reports in a word processing program (e.g., Microsoft Word) Typed and sent email messages Updated information in spreadsheets (e.g., Microsoft Excel) Completed online forms (e.g., training requests) Wrote work orders Tracked time and attendance Researched information (e.g., new equipment) using search engines (e.g., Google) None of the above 18 Select the&nbsp;response that best describes your highest level of experience training employees to perform power plant operations. Answer to this question is required I have not trained employees to perform power plant operations tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have trained employees to perform power plant operations tasks. I supervised employees conducting training to perform power plant operations tasks. None of the above. 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.