Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes your educational background. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in auditing; or in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background includes one of the following: 1. A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or 2. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. I do not possess the education or combination of education and experience as described above. 2 GS-13 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience include: 1) Developing and conducting audits and/or reviews of program activities in accordance with established guidelines and regulations; 2) Analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of various programs, operations and functions of an organization; 3) Analyzing and evaluating corrective actions for previously identified deficiencies; 4) Drafting and presenting final audit reports to leadership; and 5) Serving as a contracting officers representative monitoring the performance of contractors on audits or other assessments that have been contracted out. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Evaluate your experience planning the audit program for high-risk and/or complex performance audits.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually with minimal review/revision by supervisor, manager or senior employee. 5 Develop new audit approaches where no precedent exists. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally with minimal review by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 Select all the statements that accurately describe the breadth of your experience conducting information technology performance audits and/or audit related work.&nbsp;&nbsp;I have served as the lead auditor/team captain on one or more:&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Performance audits conducted in accordance with GAO’s Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) Inspections or Evaluations conducted in accordance with CIGIE Quality Standards for Inspections and Evaluations (QSIE) Attestations conducted in accordance with GAGAS Peer Reviews conducted in accordance with CIGIE Audit Peer Review Standards None of the above 7 Do you have experience drafting and/or editing final audit reports and recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job as part of a team. My work on this task was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as the primary author of audit reports as a regular part of my duties. I have performed it largely independently and normally with only minimal edits by a supervisor or senior employee. 8 Do you have experience reviewing draft audit reports to ensure that the objectives of the audit have been met or otherwise satisfactorily addressed, the report meets GAGAS and OIG reporting standards; the audit findings are well written, logical, and convincing, and the related audit recommendations are relevant, practical, and cost effective. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally with only minimal review by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Prepare and give formal audit briefings and presentations (entrance and exit conferences, etc) to high-level officials. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it largely independently and normally with minimal review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Select all the statements that describe the breadth of your experience serving as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR). Answer to this question is required Served as a COR on a Financial Statement Audit conducted in accordance with GAGAS and the CIGIE/GAO Financial Audit Manual. Served as a COR on a performance audit conducted in accordance with GAGAS. Served as a COR on an Inspector or Evaluation performed in accordance with CIGIE’s QSIE. Served as a COR on a Federal Information Security Modernization Act assessment conducted in accordance with either GAGAS or QSIE. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 16 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 17 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).