Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list, please indicate which sectors of the foreign affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required US Department of State (DoS) Other foreign affairs or national security agencies (e.g., Department of Defense (DoD), Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)) Private industry International organizations (e.g., United Nations (UN), North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)) Non-governmental organizations Think tanks None of the above 6 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience 7 From the list below, identify all of the organizations with which you have experience working on cyber policy issues: Answer to this question is required United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) European Union (EU) ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) Organization of American States (OAS) African Union Commission (AUC) Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) Internet Governance Forum (IGF) International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Group of Seven (G7) nations Group of Twenty (G20) nations Freedom Online Coalition (FOC) Global Forum on Cyber Expertise (GFCE) UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR) Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) None of the above 8 Please identify from the following list those organizations, the Foreign Affairs community, and others in the international relations community, with which you have collaborated to advance diplomatic initiatives: Answer to this question is required Department of State (DoS) National Security Agency (NSA) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Special Operations Command (SOCOMM) Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) Central Command Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) United Nations (UN) Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Foreign Embassies U.S. and other think tanks Private industry None of the above 9 Please identify, from the following list, those sectors of the Foreign Affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private Industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) Other Foreign affairs or National Security Agency (DOD, CIA, Homeland Security, FBI) International Organizations (UN, NATO, OSCE) Non-government organizations dealing with Peacekeeping Issues Non-government organizations dealing with Human Rights and Related Issues Think Tanks None of the above 10 Which of the following types of technology have you used in your presentations? Answer to this question is required Graphical presentations Spreadsheets Databases Word processing None of the above 11 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus across the government. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems that have a government-wide impact. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus across the government , and reaching solutions to controversial issues. None of the above. 12 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses/assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences/symposia Interviews Press/public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet None of the above 13 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Foreign Government officials Media None of the above 14 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.