Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with unit digitization plans? Answer to this question is required I have played a leadership role in developing and implementing a unit digitization plan at my organization. I have participated in the development and implementation of a unit digitization plan at my organization. I have provided data to the planning group to help inform the development of the unit digitization plan at my organization. I have no experience in developing or implementing a unit digitization plan. 3 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of advancing digital strategies in a museum, library, or archives setting? Answer to this question is required I have led the formulation of a department- or institution-wide digital strategy in a complex museum, library, or archives setting. I have successfully managed digital projects in a complex museum, library, or archives setting. I have contributed to the successful completion of digital projects in a complex museum, library, or archives setting. I have practical knowledge and experience in advancing digital strategies for museums, libraries, or archives. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience with digitization strategies and methods as applied to collections held by museums, archives, and libraries? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made decisions about what collections or materials to prioritize for digitization, based on organizational objectives and available resourcing. I have performed or overseen photography of three-dimensional objects or artworks. I have performed or overseen the imaging of complex 2-dimensional materials such as historical papers, books, or photographic materials. I have performed or overseen the reformatting of legacy/analog audiovisual formats (for example film, vinyl, and magnetic media). I have performed or overseen the migration and preservation of born-digital material. I have managed digitization projects involving multiple people and handoffs. I have worked with digitization vendors. I have solicited and secured funding (such as grants or private donations) for digitization projects. I have evaluated and recommended hardware (such as cameras, scanners, lighting, etc.), software, or other technologies to be used in digitization, based on organizational requirements and available resourcing. I have trained or supported others’ use of digitization hardware, software or other technologies. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describes your experience in supervising one or more employees? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience supervising multiple employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have some experience supervising employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have experience supervising employees including scheduling work assignments and monitoring employee progress. I have been trained in supervision but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 6 Which of the following statements describe your experience leading or supervising others? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision to subordinate employees or contractors, including planning, assigning, and reviewing work. I have evaluated the performance of subordinate employees. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff and successfully handled employee conduct issues. I have served as a team leader in motivating, planning, and monitoring work performed by others who do not report to me. I have recruited for, hired, and onboarded new staff or contractors. I have not done any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing organizational procedures, workflows, or policies related to the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I have experience contributing to the development of organizational procedures, workflows, and or policies related to the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I have experience adhering to organizational procedures, workflows, and policies to ensure the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I do not have experience adhering to organizational procedures, workflows, and policies to ensure the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of policies, standards and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images? Answer to this question is required I have education and training in policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. With supervision, I have applied policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectural property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. I have interpreted policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. . I have supervised others in applying policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectual property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images.. I have no knowledge of policies, standards, and U.S. copyright and intellectural property laws that pertain to the use and reproduction of photographic and digital images. 9 Which of the following describe your experience relating to using, analyzing, and evaluating museum, library, or archives collections information technologies and concepts? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working with at least one contemporary, multi-module museum, library, or archives collections information system, for example Axiell Collections, EMu, TMS, CollectionsSpace, CollectiveAccess, or ArchivesSpace. I have independently identified functional requirements to support, develop, or improve upon digital systems or workflows in a museum, library, or archives setting. I have independently researched and identified technologies that could be employed to meet functional requirements and support, develop, or improve upon digital systems or workflows in a museum, library, or archives setting. I have independently researched and identified technologies that could be employed to make museum, library, or archives collections data more interoperable or accessible. I have evaluated new technologies or product offerings against a defined need or requirement. I have implemented or incorporated new technology into a collections information system or data ecosystem, for example installing a new module or user application. I have defined data elements, data relationships, and/or data tables in a museum, library, or archives collections information system. I have prepared data crosswalks between existing or new systems. I have no experience using, analyzing, or evaluating museum, library, or archives collections information technologies and concepts. 10 Which of the following describe your experience in applying standards, best practices and principles in the fields of digital technologies, digital asset management, digital curation and metadata in digital asset management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing the digital asset management for the entire life-cycle of digital assets. I have experience overseeing the digital asset management of a large volume of digital assets. I have experience implementing FAGDI (Federal Agencies Guidelines for Digital Initiatives) guidelines for digital assets created for digital reformatting projects. I have experience implementing XML (extensible markup language) and XML DTDs (Data Type Definition Standards) as applied to digital asset management and digital asset delivery, including EAD and/or METS and/or MODS and/or MARCXML and/or PREMIS and/or TEI. I have experience applying best practices and standards for website accessibility of digital assets. I have experience managing rights metadata for digital assets. I have no experience with any of these job functions. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience balancing competing priorities among multiple simultaneous projects and ensuring self and others meet deadlines and produce deliverables as necessary for project success? Answer to this question is required I have independently managed multifaceted, simultaneous projects that required skillful and diplomatic balancing of competing priorities, resulting in successful completion of concurrent projects on time and within budget. I have been a key team member on projects for which I managed concurrent schedules and balanced competing priorities between projects, resulting in the successful completion of projects. I have worked on a project that involved managing schedules for self and others, determining priorities, and coordinating with project members to meet deadlines and contribute to project success. I do not have experience managing multiple simultaneous projects, schedules, and priorities. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum or cultural institution setting. I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 13 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in ensuring that the project is successfully accomplished? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. I have reviewed the work of team members and have provided guidance and training. I have set program or project goals and objectives to be accomplished. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. I have established and tracked program goals and objectives related to performance measures. I have established and monitored project cost controls. I have established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. I have set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. I have led a team or group with various levels of experience, skills, orientation, or perspective. I have established and coordinated policies, standard operating procedures, etc. I have prepared schedules for completion of work. I have assigned work to team members based on priorities. I have managed projects simultaneously of varying scope, size and budget. All or most of my projects have been delivered on time. I have not performed any of these tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.