Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as the following: (1) Experience in repairs, replacement, restoration and protection of historical stone; (2) Overseeing and monitoring new construction, renovations, infrastructure improvements and building upgrade contracts; (3) Serving as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on assigned construction and consultant contracts; (4) Working with project managers, jurisdictions, consultants and in-house resources to determine risks and making recommendations through changes in scope of work, construction documents and proactive oversight utilizing risk mitigation planning and/or removal of these risks; and (5) Recommending improvements in design and efficiencies, reducing changes to the contract and enhancing operations. 2 Have you served as an owner's representative in charge of a major building renewal, involving planning, design, pre-construction, construction, and close-out? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Select the statement that best describes your ability to perform project management on construction repair and alteration projects. Answer to this question is required I am able to plan and estimate the simplest projects. I would need assistance with more complex projects. I am able to independently plan and estimate most construction projects and all repair and improvement projects. I am able to determine which projects can be accomplished by account personnel and which can be done by contractors. I am able to independently plan and estimate all construction and repair and alteration projects. I am able to accurately establish a practical timetable as well as compute the costs of the manpower and materials required. I have little or no experience in planning and estimating construction or repair and alteration work, however, I am willing to be trained. 4 Do you have knowledge of construction work processes and the practices of Architectural/Engineering firms, construction trades, crafts and the significant interrelationships among them, both broadly and within the Washington Metropolitan area? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you managed the design and construction of several active building projects simultaneously? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Describe your experience. Include the organization where you gained the experience, your position title, duties performed, and the length of time spent performing the duties. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 Select the following construction specialty areas you have experience in managing and inspecting: Answer to this question is required Architectural work Interior renovations Exterior building repairs Site work Historic preservation New construction Structural work None of the above 7 Select the statements that demonstrate your experience in engineering concepts as it relates to executing security projects: Answer to this question is required Performing structural component analysis/assessments. Overseeing the design and/or designing of physical security features. Ensuring facility design and construction projects are in compliance with physical and technical security requirements. Maintaining physical security components for facilities. Overseeing the installation of physical security features (i.e. barriers, bollards). Performing site and/or facility inspection. Providing security criteria and standards for facilities. None of the above. 8 Select the responses that show your experience in developing Scopes of Work (SOW): Answer to this question is required Design for Architect/Engineer services Construction management services Competitive bid construction Design/build construction Construction Manager (CM) at Risk or CM as Constructor Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or Job Order Contract Technical studies None of the above 9 Which activities have you performed in construction oversight and inspection? Answer to this question is required Construction observation and field reporting Construction compliance inspection and testing Responding to requests for information and design clarification Shop drawing review and approval Reviewing and approving contractor pay requests Prepare/review change order scopes of work Review contract documents to confirm design error or discrepancy Evaluate cost and time impact of change and modify construction schedule Prepare independent estimate of change order cost Negotiate change order cost with contractor None of the above 10 Have you done construction and renovation work on buildings that require historic preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 11 Choose the statement that best describes your experience in performing inspections of construction work performed by contractors on space renovations: Answer to this question is required I have performed inspections of work performed by construction contractors for contract compliance and generated written documentation of my findings. I have performed inspections of work performed by construction contractors for contract compliance and generated written documentation of my findings, and made recommendation for payment. I have performed inspections of work performed by construction contractors for contract compliance and generated written documentation of my findings, and noted deficiencies and recommended remedial action to mitigate observed problems. None of the above 12 Select which types of documents you have written for construction projects: Answer to this question is required Statements of Work Construction specifications Technical reports Meeting minutes Correspondence and letters Instructional manuals or guidebooks None of the above 13 Have you ever briefed and or provided presentations to upper-level management and stakeholders on the status of a construction project(s) you managed? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 What data have you prepared a presentation or briefing for on project(s) you have managed? Answer to this question is required Overall project status Projects schedule Action items Risk management Submittals status Request for information status Potential change orders and modifications to contract Budget/Financial outlook Safety Quality control/quality assurance Contract administration None of the above 15 Have you overseen production estimating? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which contracting duties have you performed on a regular and recurring basis as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Managing government contracts in support of construction repairs and alteration projects. Preparing solicitation documents Serving as a Contracting Officer or Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) for construction projects. Serving as a contract administrator for management of deliverables and invoices. None of the above 17 Do you have experience serving as a Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for construction projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving construction project problems (e.g., schedule delays, quality of contractor work). Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving construction project problems. I have monitored construction projects for problems with schedule, scope, or contractor performance and reported problems to a senior employee for resolution. I have identified potential problems with construction projects and discussed potential solutions with a senior employee prior to taking corrective action. I have independently prioritized and resolved problems with construction projects. 19 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to construction management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous construction projects. Established timelines and milestones for a construction project. Closed out construction projects. Monitored a construction project progress against a bar chart and critical path method schedule. Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance. Resolved construction contractor performance issues. Managed client expectations. None of the above 20 Do you have any experience managing construction management services contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.