Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 GS-09: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B or J.D. from an accredited college or university. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least 1 one full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely fashion. My supervisor establishes timelines for the completion of my assignments or projects and I usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 6 Which best describes your experience completing tasks in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I work closely with others under direct supervision I work on my own with direct supervision I work on my own with little supervision I work on my own with no supervision None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best describes the type of assignments or projects you have completed? Answer to this question is required Group assignments / projects Independent assignments / projects Assignments / projects that contain tight timelines Assignments / projects that do not have deadlines None of the above 8 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to office automation tasks. Answer to this question is required I have saved and retrieved electronic files or documents; inserted and deleted text in letters and memoranda; entered data into established spreadsheets or databases; printed documents; and sent and received electronic mail. I have created a wide range of documents, often requiring complex formats, using the advanced functions of one software type ( e.g., edit and reformat lengthy drafts; create tables of contents, lists of exhibits, and indexes, charts, tables and graphs). I use a wide range of the functions of multiple software types (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases, presentation) to meet the needs of the office. I select the most appropriate software based on the nature of the work and my knowledge of the features of the full range of software types; create documents using multiple software types (e.g., reports containing graphics, charts or tables); and develop new databases or spreadsheets to meet office needs. I analyze office procedures to determine how automation can improve work processes; develop improved methods and procedures; provide written and/or oral guidance on new procedures; and instruct other employees on use of hardware and/or software. None of the above. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 11 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training devoted to U.S. immigration law and/or policy? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses or had training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have a B.A. / B.S. or its academic equivalent and majored in an area related to U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have earned a graduate-level degree in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in successfully and independently completing assignments in a timely manner and under tight deadlines? Answer to this question is required My work assignments are most generally completed within assigned schedules and deadlines. I have independently managed multiple tasks assignments within a common time period. I am skilled with adjusting my time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of the new or unexpected work. I independently meet deadlines and adjust priorities with management or peers. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 14 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 15 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. 16 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 17 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles None of the above 18 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely fashion. My supervisor establishes timelines for the completion of my assignments or projects and I usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 6 Which best describes your experience completing tasks in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I work closely with others under direct supervision I work on my own with direct supervision I work on my own with little supervision I work on my own with no supervision None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best describes the type of assignments or projects you have completed? Answer to this question is required Group assignments / projects Independent assignments / projects Assignments / projects that contain tight timelines Assignments / projects that do not have deadlines None of the above 8 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to office automation tasks. Answer to this question is required I have saved and retrieved electronic files or documents; inserted and deleted text in letters and memoranda; entered data into established spreadsheets or databases; printed documents; and sent and received electronic mail. I have created a wide range of documents, often requiring complex formats, using the advanced functions of one software type ( e.g., edit and reformat lengthy drafts; create tables of contents, lists of exhibits, and indexes, charts, tables and graphs). I use a wide range of the functions of multiple software types (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases, presentation) to meet the needs of the office. I select the most appropriate software based on the nature of the work and my knowledge of the features of the full range of software types; create documents using multiple software types (e.g., reports containing graphics, charts or tables); and develop new databases or spreadsheets to meet office needs. I analyze office procedures to determine how automation can improve work processes; develop improved methods and procedures; provide written and/or oral guidance on new procedures; and instruct other employees on use of hardware and/or software. None of the above. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 11 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training devoted to U.S. immigration law and/or policy? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses or had training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have a B.A. / B.S. or its academic equivalent and majored in an area related to U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have earned a graduate-level degree in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in successfully and independently completing assignments in a timely manner and under tight deadlines? Answer to this question is required My work assignments are most generally completed within assigned schedules and deadlines. I have independently managed multiple tasks assignments within a common time period. I am skilled with adjusting my time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of the new or unexpected work. I independently meet deadlines and adjust priorities with management or peers. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 14 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 15 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. 16 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 17 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles None of the above 18 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience conducting research in the nationality laws of the United States. Answer to this question is required Published in peer review journal. Created working papers or research reports. Completed a dissertation. Completed a master's thesis. Presented paper(s) at professional conferences. Written policy position papers/briefs. Adjudication / casework. None of the above Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely fashion. My supervisor establishes timelines for the completion of my assignments or projects and I usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. None of the above 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 5 Which best describes your experience completing tasks in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I work closely with others under direct supervision I work on my own with direct supervision I work on my own with little supervision I work on my own with no supervision None of the above 6 Which of the following choices best describes the type of assignments or projects you have completed? Answer to this question is required Group assignments / projects Independent assignments / projects Assignments / projects that contain tight timelines Assignments / projects that do not have deadlines None of the above 7 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to office automation tasks. Answer to this question is required I have saved and retrieved electronic files or documents; inserted and deleted text in letters and memoranda; entered data into established spreadsheets or databases; printed documents; and sent and received electronic mail. I have created a wide range of documents, often requiring complex formats, using the advanced functions of one software type ( e.g., edit and reformat lengthy drafts; create tables of contents, lists of exhibits, and indexes, charts, tables and graphs). I use a wide range of the functions of multiple software types (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases, presentation) to meet the needs of the office. I select the most appropriate software based on the nature of the work and my knowledge of the features of the full range of software types; create documents using multiple software types (e.g., reports containing graphics, charts or tables); and develop new databases or spreadsheets to meet office needs. I analyze office procedures to determine how automation can improve work processes; develop improved methods and procedures; provide written and/or oral guidance on new procedures; and instruct other employees on use of hardware and/or software. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 10 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training devoted to U.S. immigration law and/or policy? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses or had training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have a B.A. / B.S. or its academic equivalent and majored in an area related to U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. I have earned a graduate-level degree in U.S. immigration law and/or policy. 11 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 12 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in successfully and independently completing assignments in a timely manner and under tight deadlines? Answer to this question is required My work assignments are most generally completed within assigned schedules and deadlines. I have independently managed multiple tasks assignments within a common time period. I am skilled with adjusting my time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of the new or unexpected work. I independently meet deadlines and adjust priorities with management or peers. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 13 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 14 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. 15 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 16 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles None of the above 17 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.