Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have a minimum of four (4) years of demonstrated experience providing expert technical assistance, guidance and training at the national level to local, state, and federal corrections agencies to include, prisons, or jails, or pretrial, probation, and parole agencies related to operations, system-wide policy development and the implementation of evidence-informed research-based innovations or practices. Applicants must have a minimum of four (4) years of demonstrated experience in corrections system assessments, assisting state and local correctional systems to include prisons, or jails, or pretrial, probation and parole systems to improve correctional system outcomes, implement cost-effective solutions and invest in research-informed strategies that reduced recidivism. Applicants must have a minimum of four (4) years of demonstrated experience developing innovative and comprehensive initiatives, implementation planning strategies and program plans to accomplish agency-wide goals and objectives in the implementation of correctional initiatives in jails, or prisons, or community supervision agencies. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Senior Policy Advisor prepares analytical reports, memorandum, concept papers, budget documents, and other types of written responses that are disseminated to internal and external audiences to include various practitioner groups, researchers, Congressional committees, National Institute of Corrections customers, stakeholders, and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written memoranda, reports, letters, and other documents based on analysis and summaries of data obtained during reviews/studies; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information for staff; and/or I have drafted proposed responses to external stakeholders; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in policy/technical guidelines for staff for supervisory review. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. I have prepared surveys/policy advisory reports for use that were compliant with the law; and/or I have prepared talking points for senior leadership; and/or I have prepared special studies/projects and briefed various officials; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have prepared written/edited responses to internal/external agency requests received; and/or I have composed memoranda to division managers, deputy director and agency director about changes in operating policies or procedures. None of the above. 4 The Senior Policy Advisor communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from employees to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the National Institute of Corrections. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed executives/directors/commissioners on matters to improve operating guidelines, analysis of programs, evaluation of agency priorities; and/or I have led discussions on the development of policies and procedures to improve agency operations; and/or I have communicated highly technical information during meetings, conferences and other forums to executive level staff and other external state/local agencies; and/or I have utilized skills to influence/persuade others to use particular approaches to aid in meeting objectives; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations at national conferences. I have provided technical assistance with managers and staff on matters relating to operating guidelines; and/or I have briefed support managers and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have assisted in the development and facilitation of technical assistance surveys and presentations for a variety of audiences. I have presented program audit results to National Institute of Corrections’ staff; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to internal managers. None of the above. 5 The Senior Policy Advisor represents the organization in developing and maintaining effective relationships with national, state, and local experts, administrators, high-level officials, policy makers, and planners. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated and maintained relationships with stakeholders to coordinate best practices; and/or I have served as member of committee or workgroup to recommend changes to existing policy; and/or I have conducted research to assist with the preparation of talking points for organization management program meetings; and/or I have assisted in implementing proposed changes to address management problems regarding policy directives affecting policy development, strategic planning, and operational assessments etc. I have coordinated, established and maintained relationship with agency executives on complex operational and policy issues and program evaluation; and/or I have led committees or workgroups to develop and implement policy directives affecting agency policies; and/or I have prepared presentation and talking points for agency executive level leaders to present at executive staff meetings, department or congressional data calls; and/or I have implemented proposed changes to address management problems regarding policy directives affecting policy development, strategic planning, and operational assessments etc. I have coordinated, established, and maintained relationship with division employees on complex issues; and/or I have served as member of committee or workgroup to develop and implement policy directives affecting agency policies; and/or I have prepared presentations and talking points for Division Chiefs to present at organization management staff meetings. None of the above. 6 The Senior Policy Advisor must evaluate a variety of information to make correct inference or draw accurate conclusions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collaborated with division staff to brainstorm ideas and develop innovative corrections training programs; and/or I have assessed risk and weighed options to make informed choices related to project development and delivery; and/or I have recommended changes in administrative processes to streamline required workflows. I have developed and implemented strategies to optimize internal processes at the divisional level; and/or I have collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to brainstorm ideas and develop innovative solutions to address issues facing federal, state and local criminal justice agencies; and/or I have implemented strategies to optimize divisional processes or improve division performance. I have developed and implemented strategies to optimize internal processes or improve overall agency performance with agency executive level leaders; and/or I have communicated effectively to convey reasoning processes and conclusions to internal and external agency stakeholders; and/or I have solved complex operational problems by critically evaluating information and generating logical solutions. None of the above. 7 The Senior Policy Advisor oversees a program, policy or procedure or may assist in planning, directing, coordinating, and evaluating policy. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned and implemented agency projects from inception to completion; and/or I have managed multiple projects to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for agency Director/Deputy Director; and/or I have led/coordinated various meetings and special projects which were designed to improve the operations and decision-making process of the agency; and/or I have analyzed information and provided recommendations in the formulation, establishment of program objectives, plans/policies having direct impact on national agency/organization operations; and/or I have completed projects that involved the collection, review, and analysis of voluminous data and information. I have scheduled program reviews; and/or I have implemented recommended agency projects; and/or I have utilized a database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have chaired a committee or division meeting, training or conference. I have assisted with planning and implementation of agency projects from inception to completion; and/or I have tracked progress on multiple projects to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for Division Chiefs; and/or I have assisted with the coordination of various meetings and special projects which are designed to improve the operations and decision-making process of the agency. None of the above. 8 The Senior Policy Advisor understands and keeps up to date on local, national and international policies and trends that affect the organization and shape stakeholders&rsquo; views and is aware of the organization&rsquo;s impact on the external environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted executive level leaders to adapt agency strategies and tactics based on external factors to maintain relevance in the field of corrections; and/or I have provided insights and program planning recommendations to division leadership based on external trends and developments; and/or I have anticipated changes in stakeholder needs through strategic conferrals. I have monitored national corrections trends related to regulatory changes, policy updates and geopolitical events relevant to the organization; and/or I have identified emerging technologies, correctional executive preferences and societal shifts that may impact corrections as a whole; and/or I have networked with correctional industry peers, attended conferences and participated in professional associations to stay informed; and/or I have built relationship with key external executive level stakeholders, including, Directors of Corrections, Congressional representatives and staffers and state and local leaders. I have developed training programs and workshops related to emerging technologies, correctional practitioners’ preferences and correctional policy trends; and/or I have attended local, state and national conferences to stay informed of changes in the field of corrections; and/or I have read industry publications regularly to stay informed. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).