Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must undergo a pre-employment medical examination and be medically suitable to perform the essential duties of a Motor Vehicle Operator efficiently and without hazard to themselves and others. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This is a designated drug testing position. Are you willing to take random drug testing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 You must have an acceptable driving record and have no disqualifying driving safety practices within the last 5 years. Applicants are asked to submit an official copy of their driving record from the DMV dated within the last six- (6) months. Do you possess a CLASS A or B LICENSE WITH PASSENGER ENDORSEMENTS? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Ability to do the work of a Motor Vehicle Operator without more than normal supervision. (SCREEN-OUT ELEMENT) Answer to this question is required I have no vocational training and no experience related to this position. I have only vocational training or an apprenticeship related to this position, OR I have experience performing the common duties related to Motor Vehicle Operator position under close supervision. I have experience performing the common duties related to Motor Vehicle Operator position under normal supervision. I have experience performing the full range of duties related to Motor Vehicle Operator position under limited supervision. I have experience independently performing the more difficult duties related to Motor Vehicle Operator position. 5 Do you have experience transporting staff and visitors, supplies, materials and equipment?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience Operating a class IV sedan and 7 to 15 passenger vans with gross vehicle weight from 8,000 lbs. to 12,499 lbs., while transporting passengers and/or cargo? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Exercise defensive driving techniques. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 8 Ensure that passengers observe safety requirements. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 9 Determine most efficient route given traffic, weather or environmental conditions that effect passenger transport. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 10 Keep to strict time tables and pre-planned route management. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 11 Operate vehicles on various types of roads (highway, city and rural). Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 12 Adhere to city and highway traffic rules and regulations. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 13 Do you have experience operating the following (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required electric pallet jacks electric forklifts manual forklifts cherry pickers reach lifts hand trucks hydraulic dollies flat bed trucks J-bars carts None of the above 14 Read equipment gauges, controls, fluid level instruments, and warning signals. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 15 Conduct safety and pre-trip inspections on commercial vehicles. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 16 Properly inspect all vehicles to ensure safety for all passengers. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. 17 Operate vehicles in various weather conditions. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this, or I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under close supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability under normal supervision. I have used my knowledge, skill, or ability on my own initiative, with only limited supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs, because of my expertise in this area. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.