Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to design, maintain, and integrate a technical architecture program based on business requirements.** Applied technology architecture and design practices to develop cloud based solutions based on business or agency requirements.&nbsp; Created project and application deliverables consistent with architecture principles, standards, methodologies, and best practices and strategic direction. Answer to this question is required Responsible for architecting, designing, documenting, and implementing effective enterprise-wide IT solutions based on complex business requirements. Designed and implemented an Infrastructure Architecture and Standards program. Led teams in the development of technical solution architectures. Defined technical solution architectures based on established enterprise application strategy. Analyzed solution options, trade-offs, designs and integration methods. Presented technical solutions and options to senior management for concurrence and/or guidance. Communicated implications of architectural decisions, issues and plans to business and IT Leadership. Responsible for architecting, designing, documenting, and implementing effective IT solutions based on requirements and leading teams in performing these tasks. Recommended, designed, and developed applications and recommended supporting hardware and trained and mentored others in their use. Analyzed solution options, trade-offs, designs and integration methods. Communicated implications of architectural decisions, issues and plans to business and IT Leadership. Responsible for architecting, designing and implementing enterprise-wide IT solutions based on complex business requirements, and leading teams in performing these tasks. Developed processes and standards for solution design and architecture. Trained and mentored others in performing these functions. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of infrastructure technologies and practices.** Knowledge of infrastructure components and their interactions in a complex cloud and on-premises enterprise environment. Answer to this question is required Serves as a recognized technical authority for new and advanced computer or network systems hardware and software products and technologies. Exercises considerable judgment and ingenuity in advocating and documenting the benefits of implementing business-driven technical infrastructure improvement approaches in a complex enterprise-wide IT environment. Participates in the development of IT operation plans. Assists in the planning, directing and coordinating of the implementation and execution of approved policies, programs and services related to IT systems and services. Reviews and evaluates operations to appraise effectiveness of technology approaches, policies and programs. Determines deficiencies and takes and/or recommends appropriate action. Exercises judgment and ingenuity in advocating the benefits of implementing business-driven technical infrastructure improvement approaches in an enterprise-wide IT environment. Participates in the development of IT operation plans. Assists in the planning, directing and coordinating of the implementation and execution of approved policies, programs and services related to IT systems. Reviews and evaluates operations to appraise effectiveness of policies and programs. Determines deficiencies and takes and/or recommends appropriate action. Participates in the development of IT operation plans. Assists in the planning, directing and coordinating of the implementation and execution of approved policies, programs and services related to IT systems. Reviews and evaluates operations to appraise effectiveness of technology approaches. Determines deficiencies and takes and/or recommends appropriate action. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to evaluate and select technology products, services and standards. Reviewed existing and emerging technologies for stability, interoperability, portability, security, scalability and compliance with standards. Made recommendations for improvements. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and led the assessment of enterprise wide technology architectures and infrastructure solutions for continued effectiveness in meeting business and technology needs. Developed processes for performing these assessments and mentored others in performing them. Reviewed existing technology components and architectures for stability, interoperability, portability, security, and scalability. Identified major deficiencies in new or existing infrastructure designs and recommended solutions for improvement. Documented and presented findings and achieved buy-in. Led teams responsible for performing assessment of Enterprise wide technology architectures and infrastructure solutions for continued effectiveness in meeting business, technology, and security needs. Developed processes for performing these assessments and mentored others in performing them. Reviewed existing technology components and architectures for stability, interoperability, portability, security, and scalability. Participated in assessment of technology architectures and infrastructure solutions for continued effectiveness in meeting business and technology needs. Reviewed existing technical components for stability, interoperability, portability, security, and scalability. Identified and documented recommendations that resulted in improvements. Provided quality reviews of technical selections, design documents and implementation plans to ensure appropriateness. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to conduct systems analysis and design. Planned, analyzed, designed, and implemented IT systems to meet organizational and user needs.&nbsp;&nbsp;Performed the following tasks: 1) conducted needs analyses to define opportunities for new or improved services; 2) analyzed needs to develop technical requirements; 3) reviewed existing environments and executed initiatives to reduce failures, defects and improve overall performance; 4) designed system architectures for high availability and disaster recovery; 5) developed migration strategies for the deployment or upgrade of new IT systems; and 6) performed the successful integration and implementation of applications, databases, servers, and network hardware. Answer to this question is required As a technical lead, performed ALL tasks listed above for multiple, highly complex IT systems. As a technical lead, performed AT LEAST FOUR of the tasks listed above for multiple complex IT systems. As a team member, performed AT LEAST FOUR of the tasks listed above for multiple complex IT systems. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to facilitate, negotiate, and obtain consensus. Facilitated productive groups or meetings that generated involvement from other technical and non-technical staff and managers to achieve demonstrable, constructive results on complex issues. Answer to this question is required Led organization-wide groups for the purpose of resolving complex IT issues with new technology questions. Led negotiations between conflicting viewpoints to reach consensus on solutions. Frequently led presentations of technical solutions to management, project managers, technical team and customers for concurrence. Communicated implications of architectural decisions, issues, and plans to business and IT leaders. Facilitated groups that performed development of technical strategies, technology standards, roadmaps, and IT practices. Led interdepartmental groups in addressing IT issues. Facilitated meetings that resulted in the development of successful strategies and solutions to complex and contentious issues. Built consensus between diverse viewpoints. Frequently led cross-functional groups in addressing IT issues. Facilitated meetings that resulted in the development of solutions to contentious issues. Negotiated and obtained buy-in. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).