Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 You must meet the basic educational and/or experience requirements for professional Accountant positions in the Federal government. Choose one answer that best describes your educational and/or experience background for an accounting position. Answer to this question is required I have earned a Bachelor’s degree in accounting, or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (Note: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law), I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (Note: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law). I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or a combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination. 4. I have 4 years of experience in accounting, or a combination of accounting experience, college-level education, training and completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (15 semester hours) plus I have one of the following: a.) 24 semester hours in appropriate accounting or auditing courses ((Note: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law); b.) Certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, from written exam; c.) Degree that included substantial accounting/auditing courses, (15 semester hours), but less than 24 semester hours. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 09 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is experience performing analysis of corporate accounting data to prepare management and financial reports. 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 12 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 11 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is experience reviewing, analyzing and reporting on financial data; identifying accounting, reporting, and system issues; and provides recommendations for corrective actions. 2 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 5 I understand that in order to be considered non-competitively I must include a copy of my SF-50.&nbsp;The SF-50 must show the highest grade level or full performance level I have attained competitively on a permanent basis, and the grade must be equivalent to or higher than the grade for which I am applying.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).