Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 From the list below, select the example(s) that describes your experience leading, motivating and/or training volunteer of an organization on regular basis. Answer to this question is required I have assigned work of the volunteers. I have evaluated the training needs of volunteers. I have provided on-the-job training. I have coached and or mentored volunteers or employees. I have recruited for new volunteers. I have interviewed and hired new volunteers. I have developed and /or facilitated training class for volunteers. I have worked with programs, initiatives to retain and develop current volunteers. I have no experience working with volunteers. 4 Which of the following types of outreach activities have you developed? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identify and arrange for external subject matter experts to speak face-to-face to large groups. Organize informal workshops with invited speakers to present to small groups. Prepare curriculum materials and/or teach the class myself. Develop online, independent training modules that can be accessed remotely. Provide one-on-one training to individuals. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements best characterizes your teamwork or collaboration experience? Answer to this question is required I have worked independently and do not have substantial teamwork experience or collaboration experience. I have worked in collaboration with a variety of individuals and groups. I have led a team in which I was responsible for coordinating the work of the team, ensuring work was completed on time, negotiating consensus among team members, and communicating progress to managers and supervisors. I have collaborated with one or two other colleagues on a discrete project or assignment. I do not have teamwork or collaboration experience. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with volunteer program administration? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have recruited volunteers from diverse backgrounds using multiple methods. I have assisted in recruiting volunteers from diverse backgrounds using multiple methods. I have interviewed and selected volunteers. I have assisted in interviewing and selecting volunteers. I have identified the number of volunteers required for specific tasks and assignments and created master schedules. I have assisted in assigning volunteers to specific tasks and assignments and creating master schedules. I have scheduled volunteers for their assignments. I have assisted in scheduling volunteers for their assignments. I have developed policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have assisted in developing policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have planned and implemented training or enrichment sessions for volunteers. I have assisted in planning and implementing training or enrichment sessions for volunteers. None of the above. 7 Prepare written information to both internal and external audiences. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training preparing written information to both internal and external audiences. I have completed training preparing written information to both internal and external audiences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following describes your experience using spreadsheet software such as Microsoft Excel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create spreadsheets and charts from scratch, as necessary. I have used spreadsheet software to create reports, formulas/summaries, and/or sort data. I have used spreadsheet software to generate tables and graphs from data. I have inputted information into an already existing spreadsheet. I have modified an existing spreadsheet or spreadsheet format. I have created reports from established spreadsheets. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following describes your experience or training in communicating effectively with staff members, or other business professionals in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have assisted in writing clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have assisted in preparing correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have assisted in writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, and recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in the content of draft reports written by others. I have assisted in writing drafts of office-wide reports and in making recommendations to supervisor or higher management regarding changes in style of draft reports written by others. I have assisted in developing written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have assisted in writing papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have assisted in training others in written communication. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 10 Which of the following aspects of public program proposal have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed program concepts that led to a successful public program series reaching multiple audiences. I have coordinated public program proposal development across multi-disciplinary teams for various audiences. I have written a public program plan that was produced as a single program to a targeted audience. I have established timelines and budgets for a successful series. I have prepared interim or annual summary reports for the funder or management. None of the above 11 How much experience do you have in creating and adhering to program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have independently created and adhered to program budgets. I have collaborated on creating and adhering to program budgets. I have adhered to program budgets. I have never created a program budget. 12 Please check all responses which reflect your experience in performing financial management/budgetary activities. Answer to this question is required I have prepared fiscal year budget requisition packages for circulation and approval. I have monitored expenditures of the office, etc. I have compiled statistics for budget formulation and execution. I have accessed an automated financial system to review financial activity on unit operating accounts. I have maintained/updated computerized fiscal records for expense accounts or budgeted line items. I have provided monthly financial reports to reflect current status of funds authorized, obligated, expended and balance remaining. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more federal funds. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more non-appropriated (e.g., Trust) funds. I have participated in the preparation of budget for an organization/office. I have ensured budget/management plan documents meet requirements for format and completeness. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Develop annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors that involve employee development programs. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing an annual budget that involve employee development programs. I have completed formal education or training in developing an annual budget for an employee development program based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed an annual budget for employee development programs based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed an annual budget for employee development programs based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual budget for employee development programs based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing an annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors that support program outcomes. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing an annual budget that involve support program outcomes. I have completed formal education or training in developing an annual budget but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed an annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed an annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost factors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in planning and implementing public-oriented programs and activities related to African American History and/or culture? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 16 Which of the following answer(s) reflect your knowledge of African American history? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have thorough knowledge of American history and culture. I have thorough knowledge of African American history and culture. I have knowledge of cultural property and sensitivity issues related to African American communities. None of the above. 17 Give oral presentations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training giving oral presentations. I have completed education or training giving oral presentations, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have given oral presentations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have given oral presentations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have given oral presentations as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task 18 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally to provide information? Answer to this question is required I have experience giving presentations and conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or resolving issues/problems including providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers, staff members, or office visitors; or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers and staff members and office visitors. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.