Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Paralegal Specialists must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner while following established rules and guidelines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared litigation reports involving specialized legal issues; and/or I have prepared responses to requests for release of information; and/or I have prepared declarations and requests for representation. I have drafted declarations and requests for representation for review; and/or I have drafted litigation reports or motions; and/or I have prepared draft responses to correspondence involving legal issues. I have prepared progress reports such as casework reports and analysis; and/or I have prepared correspondence containing professional or technical terms; and/or I have prepared written responses to requests for information about office operations. None of the above. 3 Paralegal Specialists must gather and analyze data, evaluate its usefulness in resolving legal issues, and develop evidence to support the agency's litigation activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and analyzed case issues; and/or I have developed and/or evaluated evidence; and/or I have resolved conflicting data; and/or I have clarified factual and legal issues; and/or I have conducted research on complex legal issues using Westlaw. I have located relevant references and supporting documentation; and/or I have analyzed basic information; and/or I have prepared monthly reports. I have reviewed SENTRY data for response to inmate inquiries; and/or I have conducted basic research utilizing the Internet; and/or I have collected data for monthly reports. None of the above. 4 Paralegal Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information. They typically meet and deal with co-workers, agency officials, legal professionals and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided training to new legal staff; and/or I have provided status of a case, claim or request to a staff member; and/or I have responded and provided guidance to routine policy questions; and/or I have provided informational services to courts; and/or I have answered phone calls and provided answers based on agency regulation and policy. I have provided case information to staff members; and/or I have contacted staff to obtain information and documentation relating to cases or claims; and/or I have assisted with providing training on correctional topics. I have provided guidance to staff on office procedures; and/or I have responded to routine staff inquiries; and/or I have contacted staff to relay information about case law, regulations, or policy; and/or I have answered questions about Bureau/Agency regulations or policies; and/or I have contacted staff to coordinate training and travel schedules. None of the above. 5 Paralegal Specialists must have knowledge of the legal issues related to correctional practices and programs. They must also have knowledge of the principles, concepts, and methods of legal research and analysis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched Bureau/Agency policy in responding to routine inquiries; and/or I have researched and summarized case for legal staff; and/or I have reviewed proposed draft policy for impact on legal operations. I have assisted in the preparation of motions or litigation reports; and/or I have prepared draft responses to Administrative Remedies; and/or I have conducted investigations and prepared reports; and/or I have assisted in writing recommendations regarding Tort Claims. I have determined the impact of inmate rights on a proposed policy; and/or I have applied case law and policy in computing federal inmate sentences; and/or I have assisted in researching Administrative Remedy Appeals and Freedom of Information Act requests. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).