Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Candidates must be a Commissioned Risk Management or Compliance Examiner in the FDIC or another organization with comparable commissioning criteria used by the FDIC. Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please provide the year of your commissioning. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agencty. Leadership Experience 1: I have experience in coordinating the work of employees in a work unit, including assigning and evaluating work; setting priorities, timelines, and expectations; and monitoring progress against goals. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 2:&nbsp; I have experience in setting performance expectations; assessing employee performance; providing recognition and rewards; providing feedback and development opportunities; addressing performance or conduct issues; and participating in recruitment and hiring activities. Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 1: I have technical experience in collaborating with other stakeholders in implementing strategic technology plans and monitoring budgets/resources to meet corporate/divisional objectives. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 2: I have technical experience in the successful oversight of teams working on concurrent technology projects during the development and delivery of systems, applications, and tools. Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 3: I have technical experience in identifying and evaluating complex technology options to support well-informed strategic decisions. Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 4: I have technical experience in communication to audiences of internal and external audiences on technology plans, opportunities, and challenges. Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 5: I have technical experience in providing guidance and direction on data management to ensure users have comprehensive information available to effectively conduct business activities. Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 9 To meet the eligibility requirements for this vacancy announcement, you must provide the applicable supporting documentation to prove Competitive Service Status as outlined in the &lsquo;Required Documents&rsquo; section of this announcement. Failure to provide all of the required and applicable documentation as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible determination or may affect your consideration status. Multiple documents may be necessary to verify eligibility. Does your application package include the applicable supporting documentation? If unsure, please email the contact the person listed on this job opportunity announcement before the closing date. Unfortunately, we are unable to accept any supporting documents to determine your eligibility after the closing date. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Current or Former Career SES members you may be required to provide additional documentation&nbsp; &nbsp; The FDIC Corporate Experts, Executive and Corporate Managers (i.e., CX, EM, and CM) are in the Federal competitive service and not in the Senior Executive Service (SES).&nbsp; &nbsp; SES members must submit multiple SF-50s that show (1) current or former career SES appointment, and (2) proof of a career or career-conditional tenure (codes 1 or 2, in block 24); and position occupied in the competitive service (code 1, in block 34). &nbsp; SES members without competitive service career status are eligible to use any other applicable special appointing authorities.&nbsp; &nbsp; Failure to provide all the required and applicable eligibility documentation as stated in this JOA&rsquo;s &ldquo;Required Documents&rdquo; section may result in an ineligible determination affecting your status consideration. &nbsp; &nbsp; Does your application package include the applicable eligibility documentation? Please e-mail JOA contact person if unsure. Answer to this question is required Yes No Not Applicable (N/A) 11 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required [ERROR rendering field] Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).