Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current National Gallery of Art employee?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Radiography is an imaging technique using X-Rays, gamma rays or similar ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation to view the internal form of an object. Answer to this question is required True False 3 An organic solvent can be defined as a carbon-based, liquid substance capable of dissolving or dispersing other materials. Answer to this question is required True False 4 When handling organic solvents and chemicals, you should follow guidance issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at the United States Department of Labor. Answer to this question is required True False 5 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Do you have experience in managing a supply inventory database? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Have you managed supply inventory control, using an automated system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you performed supply inventory of available stock levels and developed reorder points? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have had experience in the safe handling of invaluable objects.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 &nbsp; &nbsp; I have the ability to multi-task across multiple offices and departments while maintaining professional tact and diplomacy. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.