Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Have you independently planned the installation or repair of masonry work? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of job responsibility in painting. Answer to this question is required I perform independently and expertly the full range of painting duties, especially in situations requiring more than ordinary skill such as refinishing and decorative painting. Work is checked after completion on intermittent basis. I perform a wide variety of difficult painting duties within the framework of oral and written instructions and accepted trade practices, processes and procedures. The most difficult work is always checked at the completion. I perform a variety of difficult painting tasks subject to periodic inspection during work progress and checked upon completion to insure meeting trade standards. None of the above. 4 Have you independently measured water and plaster to create a plaster mixes with different consistencies? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience plastering surfaces. Answer to this question is required I have independently repaired decorative plaster work (e.g., rosettes, medallions) or created custom molds. I have independently repaired plaster walls and ceilings using a three-coat plaster process. I have assisted a plasterer by performing demolition, mixing plaster, or applying scratch coat. I have assisted with a construction project by setting up drop cloths, retrieving materials, or constructing plastic walls (e.g., zip walls) to contain dust. None of the above. 6 Do you have experience applying a skim coat to drywall installations? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which materials have you used to repair ornamental plaster? Answer to this question is required Fiberglass tape Plaster weld Custom rubber molds None of the above 8 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Trompe l'oeil Stenciling Striping Glazing Graining Sponging Antiquing Sign painting Painting seals/murals Painting ornamental plaster Gold leafing Texturing Lettering None of the above 9 Select the tasks you have performed when completing measurement and layout duties while performing masonry work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out masonry work using blueprints, specifications, drawings and work orders. Calculated required materials using length, width, and depth mathematic calculations Operated mortar mixer/concrete mixers Used concrete saw and angle grinder to correctly size stone and marble None of the above 10 Do you have experience repairing walls or plaster work at heights reached with ladders, scaffolding, or hydraulic lifts? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Do you have experience squaring a damaged area for plaster repair? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select the types of tools you have operated independently to perform wood crafter activities. Answer to this question is required Precise measuring tools (e.g., micrometer, protractor) Basic hand tools (e.g., plane, variable speed drill, hand saw) Advanced hand power tools (e.g., moulder, mortiser, table saw, routers, domino) Pneumatic tools (e.g., clamps, air sanders) None of the above 13 Do you have experience performing masonry repairs on historic structures using a variety of applications (stone and marble)? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 What types of specialized tools have you used to complete complex painting and decorative assignments? Answer to this question is required Pumice Rottenstone Trowels Screeds Viscosity Testers Graining Devices Sponges / Feathers None of the above 15 Select all&nbsp;of the following hand and power tools in which you have experience operating skillfully: Answer to this question is required Hammers Hand Saws Drills Planes Routers Screwdrivers Power Nailers Glue Guns Power Saws Power Sanders None of the above 16 Do you have experience interpreting building blueprints and system schematics to determine how to complete a masonry project? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 17 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.