Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 All candidates for Performance Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Degree: auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting. or Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant’s background must also include one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. 1 After reading the requirements above, please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Performance Auditing job series. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in A above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.1. above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.2. above. I do not meet any of the choices above. Specialized experience is experience obtaining, verifying and summarizing auditing documentation; applying professional auditing principles, practices and skills; and obtaining and evaluating information, ensuring accuracy and reliability. 2 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I have completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or the equivalent) in accounting and/or auditing, or in a related field such as business administration, finance or public administration. I have completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university PLUS graduated in the upper third of the college, university or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration based on completed coursework. I have completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university PLUS I have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded in the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university PLUS I have a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0, based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field, or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university PLUS I have been elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society (listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities). I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 09 All candidates for Performance Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Degree: auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting. or Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant’s background must also include one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. 1 After reading the requirements above, please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Performance Auditing job series. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in A above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.1. above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.2. above. I do not meet any of the choices above. Specialized Experience for this position is experience assisting in the conduct of performance audits; assisting in the evaluation of policies, procedures, or internal controls to assess program performance; and evaluating compliance with laws and regulations. 2 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I possess a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree OR have completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).