Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the ONE answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required EXPERIENCE: I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 7 level in the Federal service as described below: EDUCATION: I have completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related. I possess a COMBINATION of graduate level education as described above, and the specialized experience as described below, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. None of the above. 2 Specialized experience is defined as experience researching and applying analytic or data management principles to assist in the development of reports or data analysis related to financial markets or financial institutions, or to related lines of business (i.e., derivatives, real estate finance, private wealth management, credit card operations, commercial or residential mortgage lending, asset based financing vehicles). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 11 1 Choose the ONE answer that best describes your education and experience: Answer to this question is required EXPERIENCE: I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 9 level in the Federal service as described below. EDUCATION: I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.M., if related. I possess a COMBINATION of graduate level education as described above, and the specialized experience as described below, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. None of the above. 2 Specialized experience is defined as experience researching and contributing to reports, exams, or data analysis related to financial markets or financial institutions and either lines of business (i.e., derivatives, real estate finance, private wealth management, credit card operations, commercial or residential mortgage lending, asset based financing vehicles) or for the review or development of a resolution plan of a large financial institution (bank or bank holding company, insurance company, broker-dealer or financial market utility). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 12 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 11 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Specialized experience is defined as experience analyzing and evaluating procedural and factual issues related to the development, review, and assessment of recovery and resolution strategies for large, complex financial institutions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).