Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise &amp; lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised a diverse workforce.Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies:Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time &amp; resources to accomplish goals;Solved problems by anticipating, diagnosing, &amp; analyzing facts to reach a conclusion;Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity &amp; holding staff accountable;Ensured quality control by monitoring the integrity of work performed;Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, &amp; considering the needs &amp; capabilities of staff &amp; handling issues with tact;Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity &amp; consideration for others ideas; Implemented improvement of current business processes &amp; work quality through innovation &amp; continuous development;Motivated &amp; provided direction with constructive feedback &amp; coaching; &amp;&nbsp;Created a work environment that fosters creativity &amp; integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the application of principles, concepts, and techniques of Library Science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts, and techniques to manage library functions and carried out library programs by performing tasks related to the field of work, such as: 1) setting priorities and policies for reference and research services; 2) utilizing information technology in a reading room setting; 3) managing reading room space and design; 4) providing leadership and management for a complex reference and research operation; 5) working closely with legal research specialists in setting research priorities and targets; and 6) managing circulation services and collection security. Answer to this question is required As a manager in a large legal research library or agency, initiated, planned, led, and executed programs and performed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager in a legal research library, supported existing programs and performed AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the tasks listed above. As a law librarian, applied knowledge of principles, concepts, and techniques of library and information science to one or more specialized functions or programs within a library and information environment and performed AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide research services in the field of expertise (Law).** Provided research services for users (e.g. Members of Congress and their staffs, and officials inside and outside the Library of Congress and other Law Library constituents). Research may have involved not only directing the user to information sources, but also locating, evaluating, and analyzing the information. This may have included identifying and evaluating major publications, electronic resources and trends in the fields of expertise for validity and relevance to research goals, as well as managing varied research projects within the framework of legal scholarship. Answer to this question is required Managed complex research projects or services and applied EXPERT knowledge of authoritative information resources relevant to legal research. Directed information research efforts by information professionals to support the analysis of COMPLEX legal issues. Directed information research efforts by information professionals to support the analysis of COMPLEX legal issues. Played a significant role as a key team member in the implementation of information research efforts to support the analysis of COMPLEX legal issues. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan and execute programs and/or projects. Developed, organized, implemented, and evaluated plans for programs and/or projects. This included overseeing program and/or project from conception through development and production, while managing a variety of functions simultaneously and with flexibility while working under competing demands and deadlines. Answer to this question is required Developed, planned, implemented, and evaluated new and existing library programs and projects related to legal information resources. Led legal research programs and projects supporting the strategic initiatives and mission of an organization. Implemented and evaluated new and existing library programs and projects related to legal information resources. Led programs and projects supporting the strategic initiatives and mission of an organization. Implemented and evaluated programs and services to support an organization's operations. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide consultation and liaison services. Provided consultations and liaison services to make recommendations regarding major changes in program areas; conducted outreach and built long-term professional relationships with persons inside and outside the organization; and sought and used client or professional network feedback in evaluating organizational performance and work planning. Answer to this question is required Served as a PRINCIPAL LIAISON for an organization at professional conferences, seminars, meetings, or exhibits and explained and presented specialized or technical information to groups and individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience. Developed and maintained personal contacts and professional standing to foster cooperative work relationships INSIDE AND OUTSIDE an organization, including initiating or establishing professional relationships with other specialists to share resources and information. Served as a representative or liaison for an organization at conferences, seminars, meetings, or exhibits and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience. Developed and maintained personal contacts and professional standing to establish and foster cooperative work relationships INSIDE AND OUTSIDE an organization. Served as a representative or liaison for an organization at conferences, seminars, meetings, or exhibits and explained specialized or technical information to individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience. Developed and maintained personal contacts and professional standing to establish and foster cooperative work relationships INSIDE an organization. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products related to the field of work including, but not limited to: 1) performance evaluations, 2) project management documentation, 3) strategic plans and reports, 4) research analyses and papers, 5) policies and procedures, 6) contracts, and 7) grant proposals. This includes targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Wrote ALL of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a national program area. Wrote AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. Wrote AT LEAST THREE (3) of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area of the position. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).