Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience leading enterprise digital asset or collections information technology programs and services? Answer to this question is required I have led an enterprise-wide digital asset or collections information technology program, including strategy, implementation, operations, modernization, and continuous improvement of multiple integrated services or platforms. I have led multiple digital collections information, or related enterprise technology services or platforms through implementation, operation, or modernization. I have managed a major digital asset, collections information, or related technology service or platform and coordinated work across multiple stakeholders. I have managed projects or significant workstreams supporting digital asset, collections information, or related technology services. I have participated as a team member in projects supporting digital asset, collections information, or related technology services. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience modernizing enterprise technology services? Answer to this question is required I have directed enterprise modernization initiatives that improved multiple technology platforms or services and established performance measures or service delivery models to assess results. I have led modernization of multiple technology platforms or services and evaluated service performance, reliability, user experience, or organizational impact. I have led modernization or major enhancement of a technology platform or service and coordinated implementation with affected users and stakeholders. I have managed a component or workstream of a technology modernization initiative. I have supported technology modernization activities under the direction of a project or program manager. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience supervising a technical workforce? Answer to this question is required I have supervised subordinate supervisors or managers and technical employees, with responsibility for assigning work, setting priorities, evaluating performance, recommending personnel actions, and allocating workforce resources. I have supervised technical employees and contractors, including assigning work, setting priorities, evaluating performance, and participating in staffing or personnel actions. I have served as a first-line supervisor of technical employees or contractors with responsibility for assigning and evaluating work. I have served as a team lead or acting supervisor coordinating and reviewing the work of technical staff or contractors. I have provided technical guidance or task direction to staff or contractors without formal supervisory responsibility. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with workforce planning and employee development? Answer to this question is required I have developed organizational workforce strategies, identified capability requirements, and directed employee development, mentoring, training, or succession planning across multiple technical teams. I have identified workforce capability needs and implemented employee development, mentoring, training, or succession activities for a technical organization. I have planned staffing or development needs for a technical team and provided employees with training, mentoring, or development opportunities. I have contributed to staffing, training, mentoring, or employee development activities for a technical team. I have provided informal mentoring or technical guidance to coworkers. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience developing enterprise technology strategy and governance? Answer to this question is required I have established an enterprise technology vision, long-range roadmap, governance framework, standards, and operating model for services used across multiple organizational units. I have developed technology strategies, roadmaps, governance frameworks, or standards for multiple enterprise services or platforms. I have developed a strategy, roadmap, governance process, or standards for a major technology service or platform. I have contributed to development or implementation of technology strategies, roadmaps, governance processes, or standards. I have applied established technology governance processes or standards in project or operational work. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience building consensus on enterprise technology priorities? Answer to this question is required I have led institution- or enterprise-wide planning and decision-making among diverse senior stakeholders and built consensus on complex technology priorities, investments, risks, or shared solutions. I have led cross-organizational stakeholder groups and built consensus on significant technology priorities, requirements, or solutions affecting multiple business units. I have facilitated stakeholder decision-making for a major technology program or service involving multiple organizational groups. I have coordinated requirements and priorities with multiple stakeholders for a technology project or service. I have participated in stakeholder meetings and provided input on technology requirements or priorities. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience managing technology portfolios and investments? Answer to this question is required I have directed an enterprise technology portfolio and prioritized investments, modernization initiatives, enhancements, and operations based on strategic value, service performance, institutional needs, and risk. I have managed multiple technology programs or services and prioritized investments and resources based on business needs, performance, cost, and risk. I have managed the budget and resources for a major technology program or service and recommended investment priorities. I have managed or monitored resources, costs, or investment activities for a technology project or service. I have supported budget, resource, or investment tracking for a technology project or service None of the above 9 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with technology acquisitions and vendor management? Answer to this question is required I have led acquisition planning and vendor management for an enterprise technology portfolio, including development of requirements, contract strategy, vendor performance oversight, and major acquisition or renewal decisions. I have managed multiple technology contracts or vendor relationships and led acquisition planning, requirements development, or vendor performance decisions. I have managed a significant technology contract or vendor relationship and participated in acquisition planning or requirements development. I have served as a technical or program representative supporting technology acquisitions, contracts, or vendor performance activities. I have assisted with technology procurement, contract administration, or vendor coordination activities. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.