Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide budget planning and execution activities.** Serves as a technical authority on budget execution matters. This included: 1) provides advice and guidance on the implications of various budget scenarios and recommends appropriate course of action, 2) oversee the development of operating plans and performs budget execution work, 3) monitors transactions and reconciles financial accounts, 4) performs complex financial analysis and cost projections and prepares monthly reporting of financial transactions, 5) develops databases to analyze and consolidate budget data, 6) advises management of trends toward over- and under- obligation of funds, 7) prepares various reports, 8) maintains constant awareness of financial operations and program developments, and 9) conducts annual year-end closing activities for assigned budget accounts. Answer to this question is required As the technical authority on budget execution matters, independently executed ALL of the following tasks: 1) provides advice and guidance on the implications of various budget scenarios and recommends appropriate course of action, 2) oversee the development of operating plans and performs budget execution work, 3) monitors transactions and reconciles financial accounts, 4) performs complex financial analysis and cost projections and prepares monthly reporting of financial transactions, 5) develops databases to analyze and consolidate budget data, 6) advises management of trends toward over- and under- obligation of funds, 7) prepares various reports, 8) maintains constant awareness of financial operations and program developments, and 9) conducts annual year-end closing activities for assigned budget accounts. As the technical authority on budget execution matters, independently executed SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above tasks. As the technical authority on budget execution matters, independently executed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide budget analysis activities.** Provides in-depth analysis and research on complex issues related to budget formulation. In doing so, performs the following: 1) presents alternatives and makes recommendations to management about the future allocation of budgetary resources, 2) contributes to the development of fiscal policy, 3) analyzes and evaluates relationships between major operating program changes and the financial state of the organization, 4) reviews and analyzes a variety of historical data and compares it to current spending information and trends to facilitate decisions regarding resource allocation, annual cost projections, and out-year budget requirements, 5) analyzes new or revised legislation to ascertain financial impact on operations, and 6) develops new approaches or methodologies to facilitate the analysis of new or emerging budget issues or trends. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY and INDEPENDENTLY performed ALL of the following: 1) presents alternatives and makes recommendations to management about the future allocation of budgetary resources, 2) contributes to the development of fiscal policy, 3) analyzes and evaluates relationships between major operating program changes and the financial state of the organization, 4) reviews and analyzes a variety of historical data and compares it to current spending information and trends to facilitate decisions regarding resource allocation, annual cost projections, and out-year budget requirements, 5) analyzes new or revised legislation to ascertain financial impact on operations, and 6) develops new approaches or methodologies to facilitate the analysis of new or emerging budget issues or trends. As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. As a primary job responsibility, performed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation on financial matters, reports, and data.** Communicated and interacted with others to explain information clearly and concisely and to provide consultation to others on financial reports and data with technical and non-technical staff. Answer to this question is required Interacted and communicated with subject matter experts, senior management and staff concerning financial management data and report issues. Routinely served as a liaison for the organization with internal and external organizations on financial management report matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, served as an authoritative source of information and consultation for other organization, managers and staff concerning financial management reports and data. Well versed at communicating with both technical and non-technical staff. Interacted and communicated with subject matter experts, management and staff concerning financial management issues. Served as a liaison for the organization on financial matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented financial management information to other organizations, management, and staff. Interacted and communicated with a range of individuals, including management and staff concerning financial management issues. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to supervise and/or lead and develop a workforce. Led, supervised and managed a workforce and, in so doing, performed the following tasks: 1) planned, designed, carried, and assigned work, 2) established guidelines and performance expectations for staff, which are clearly communicated through the formal employee appraisal program, 3) provided informal feedback and evaluate employee performance, 4) resolved informal complaints and grievances, 5) developed work improvement plans and recommended personnel actions as necessary; 6) provided advice and counsel to staffs related to work and administrative matters; 7) identified developmental/training needs, and 8) hired employees. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SIX (6) of the above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. The ability to write clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products, such as: 1) process and procedure documentation, 2) administrative reports, 3) analytical reports, 4) study proposals, 5) project plans, 6) communications announcements/responses to users, 7) financial or system policies and 8) training materials. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, wrote ALL of the above documents and reports related to financial system management program. As a primary job responsibility, wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents and reports related to financial system management program. As a primary job responsibility, wrote FIVE (5) of the above documents and reports related to financial system management program. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).