Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 5 Which statement best describes your experience of exercising procurement or contracting authority under a formal delegation? Answer to this question is required I have held delegated procurement or limited contracting authority and executed purchases within delegated limits in accordance with applicable policy and procedures. I have performed procurement actions under the delegation of another official (e.g., prepared actions for review/approval) but did not hold delegated authority. I have supported procurement activities in an administrative capacity without delegated authority. I have No experience in this area. 6 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer at the $50K level or more. I have experience coordinating with the central contracting office to ensure new procedures and rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submissions to central contracting office. I have experience providing procurement briefings to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your experience developing and executing federal and/or trust budgets? Answer to this question is required I have led the development and execution of federal and/or trust budgets across multiple departments. I have independently managed federal and/or trust budgets within a single department. I have assisted with budget development or execution under direction. I have limited exposure to federal or trust budget management. I have no experience in this area. 8 Which of the following activities reflects your experience managing the full budget lifecycle and enterprise financial planning? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have budget formulation and justification experience. I have budget execution and monitoring experience. I have financial reporting and performance analysis experience. I have multi year financial planning experience. I have oversight of budget activities for multiple organizations experience. No experience in these activities. 9 Which of the following describes your experience directing unit‑level financial operations? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have directed financial operations supporting multiple divisions or programs. I have managed financial and procurement workflows and internal controls. I have managed federal and/or trust funded resources. I have led or supported unit or centralized or shared financial services. I have provided oversight for a single program or cost center. I have no experience in this area. 10 Which statement best describes your experience supervising staff or team projects? Answer to this question is required I supervised staff by setting goals and priorities, assigning work, evaluating performance, and holding employees accountable for results. I led staff or teams by assigning work and monitoring progress but did not have full supervisory authority. I served as a team lead or project lead without responsibility for performance evaluation. I have not supervised staff. 11 Which activities reflect your experience evaluating performance and supporting employee development? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared performance plans and appraisals. I have conducted formal or informal performance evaluations. I have identified training needs and supported employee development. I have provided routine feedback with or without responsibility for evaluations. I have no experience evaluating performance or supporting development. 12 Which of the leadership functions have you performed successfully on projects that you led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines and expectations I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 13 Which of the following describes your experience applying federal financial laws, regulations, or policy? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led application of federal financial policy to unit-level operations. I have applied federal financial policy within assigned programs or units. I have assisted others in applying federal financial policy under supervision. I have limited exposure to federal financial policy. I have no experience in this area. 14 What is your experience advising senior management on audit status and recommendations for corrective actions and oversight to ensure compliance? Answer to this question is required Based on my extensive knowledge of budget and procurement processes, I have recommended corrective actions to audit issues and maintained oversight to ensure compliance. I was informed of corrective actions on audit issues and worked independently to ensure compliance with newly established procedures. I have knowledge of this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have no experience advising senior management on audit status and recommendations. 15 Which activities reflect your experience advising senior leadership on financial matters? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have advised senior leaders on financial strategy, risk, or resource allocation. I have presented financial analysis to support executive decision making. I have recommended corrective actions to address financial risk or compliance issues. I have provided routine financial information without advisory responsibility. I have no experience in this area. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting and/or overseeing internal audits for the purpose of revieing the financial solvency of various functions and/or programs and projects and for other purposes as directed? Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting and/or overseeing internal audits for the purpose of reviewing the financial solvency of various functions and/or programs and projects and for other purposes as directed. I have experience conducting and/or overseeing internal audits for the purpose of reviewing the financial solvency of various functions and/or programs and projects. I have experience conducting and/or overseeing internal audits for the purpose of reviewing the financial solvency of various functions and/or programs. I have experience conducting and/or overseeing internal audits for the purpose of reviewing the financial solvency of various functions. I have experience conducting internal audits. I do not have related experience. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.