Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 With which of the following logistics management functions do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Logistics planning Supply chain management Storage and distribution Transportation Acquisitions procurement Customer service Inventory / property management Contract negotiations Travel and household goods Pouch and mail services Policy Project management Training Logistics systems None of the above 2 Which of the following transportation tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Employee household preparation counseling Movement planning Customs coordination Carrier coordination and negotiation Traffic management Employee travel counseling and customer service None of the above 3 Which of the following storage and distribution tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Receiving Packaging Order fulfillment Inventory management Shipping Transportation coordination Property disposal Material handling None of the above 4 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience with budget-related activities? Answer to this question is required I have not developed a project, program, or organizational budget. I have developed and/or managed a project budget. I have developed and/or managed a program budget. I have developed and/or managed a department or division budget. I have developed and/or managed an organizational / agency budget. 5 With which of the following materials receipt, inspection, inventory control, movement, disposal, and recovery process functions do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Warehousing and distribution Inventory management Receiving Shipping Property disposal and recovery None of the above 6 In which of the following logistics management related areas have you completed a training course? Answer to this question is required Transportation management Customer service Acquisitions Supply management Warehousing operations Inventory management Excess property Financial management Mail and parcel movement handling Travel and personal property management None of the above 7 Please indicate the manner(s) in which you have communicated orally or made an oral presentation: Answer to this question is required Briefings Conferences Interviews Meetings Negotiations One-on-one discussions Speeches Technical assistance Telephone inquiries Training None of the above 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of work experience in acquisition management policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in this area. I have education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area. I have used my organization`s acquisition process. I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals). I have led a complex acquisition team. None of the above. 9 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 10 Which of the following customer service related activities have you regularly performed? Answer to this question is required Represented my agency or company at various business-related functions. Contacted potential users of services. Responded to customer inquiries. Established and monitored performance measurements. Participated in customer training, formal service presentations, and/or promotional functions. Provided counsel for customers regarding the use of and benefits of services. Performed troubleshooting in response to customer queries and/or supply chain challenges. Established and/or maintained a professional relationship with agencies and private industry. Conducted research on new services, and visited agencies to assess the strengths and weaknesses of existing services and how they might be improved. Solicited feedback to evaluate and improve a program or service. None of the above. 11 Which of the following training tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Conducted logistics courses. Developed lesson plans and work aids. Reviewing training assessments / feedback. Coordinated training. Conducted customer surveys. Conducted conference planning. Conducted a formal presentation / briefing. Succession planning. Logistics career development. None of the above. 12 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in your work? Answer to this question is required Acting as a supervisor Conducting performance evaluations Acting as a Team Leader Customer satisfaction Project management experience Strategic planning experience Mentoring None of the above 13 Which of the following acquisitions / procurement tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepared solicitations. Negotiating contracts. Prepared ratifications. Conducted cost analysis. Awarded contracts. Managed contracts. Administering contracts. Managing vendors. Analyzing procurement applications. Conducting purchase card procurement. None of the above. 14 Which of the following qualitative / quantitative analysis functions have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Gathered statistical data Worked with spreadsheets Performed qualitative analyses Performed quantitative analyses Designed / developed qualitative and/or quantitative analysis plans Designed / developed graphs and charts Produced supply chain queries and reports None of the above 15 Which of the following tools have you routinely used in the performance of your work for logistics-related projects? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Access or equivalent database application Microsoft Excel or equivalent spreadsheet application Microsoft PowerPoint or equivalent presentation application Query development software None of the above 16 In which of the following logistics management related areas do you have experience applying the associated laws, rules, regulations, processes and business practices? Answer to this question is required Transportation management Acquisitions Supply management Warehousing operations Inventory management Excess property Financial management Mail and parcel movement / handling Logistics policy development None of the above 17 Which of the following analysis tools have you used? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Project Process mapping software (e.g., Visio) Survey development applications Activity-based analysis tools Spreadsheets Databases None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.