Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. A master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirement for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, OR equivalent. Do you meet the selective factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, or equivalent. No, I do not possess the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit their license for Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, or equivalent for verification. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act. 30% or More Disabled Veteran. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT, by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Chief Social Worker participates with governance, managerial, medical staff and other clinical leaders in decision making structures and processes of the Federal Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; He/she must effectively communicate and work collaboratively with a wide variety of individuals and agencies to optimize continuity of care and to develop resources.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided specialized clinical social work services to individuals, groups, and agencies such as attorneys, Federal Probation Officers, Court Services and Offender Supervision (CSOSA), physicians/hospital personnel, and Public Health Service (PHS) Officers; and/or I have advised or provided helpful social work input to other disciplines; and/or I have collaborated with health care providers and outside agency officials regarding mental health or medical treatment needs for inmates/clients releasing to Residential Reentry Centers (RRC) or home detention; and/or I have delivered presentations at a national, regional, or local social work or multidisciplinary conference; and/or I have participated in the interview process for social work positions. I have provided orientation/mentorship with accredited Schools of Social Work to enhance collaboration and recruitment; and/or I have facilitated and led interdisciplinary meetings with health professionals (i.e., physicians, nurses and rehabilitative staff); and/or I have participated in decision making discussions relating to the social work field; and/or I have located key agencies and contacted personnel to facilitate working relationships; and/or I have provided direct social work services to clients via in-person, telephonic or video conferencing equipment; and/or I have assisted with training of new social workers in assigned location; and/or I have conducted or participated in staff assist visits; and/or I have oversaw or provided advice and guidance to other social work services for institution executive staff and health services clinical and administrative staff. I have utilized conference calls, online or live training, presentations; and/or I have advised clinical, program staff, or agencies on the organization’s policies and procedures regarding the medical and mental health treatment needs of inmates/clients; and/or I have conveyed changes in policy regarding the medical and mental health treatment needs of inmates/clients to clinical, program staff, or agency officials; and/or I have developed and coordinated social work conferences at the national level; and/or I have represented profession of social work as a speaker at high level conference. None of the above. 7 The Chief Social Worker provides technical guidance and expertise through various written directives, policies and procedures.&nbsp; He/she must be able to develop short-range and long-range objectives, plans and programs for the social work discipline and integrate such plans with the overall objectives and plans of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided all or part of the content used in developing a program or policy; and/or I have made recommendations from research findings and incident evaluations that impacted policies and services; and/or I have shared written program materials with other departments or agencies; and/or I have corresponded with other resources to secure complex social work services; and/or I have developed and performed complex literature and programmatic studies to identify new or improved upon existing approaches. I have established written program policies and procedures for a specific program; and/or I have developed transition plans for compassionate release cases for inmates/clients with specialized needs (i.e., skilled nursing facilities, dialysis center, hospice care); and/or I have written program manuals or guidelines which were used by other departments or agencies; and/or I have contributed written articles or policies to newsletters, journals or other publications. I have developed written clinical guidelines, national policies and procedures, or supplements used on a national level; and/or I have established national clinical guidelines on compassionate release; and/or I have developed a hospice program model for the agency; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal or external newsletters, journals or other publications; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document for regional or headquarter level review. None of the above. 8 The Chief Social Worker oversees the Federal Bureau of Prisons social work programs and works collaboratively with branch chiefs and chief professional officers in planning, directing, coordinating and evaluating policy as it relates to correctional social work.&nbsp; He/she must be able to collect information from a variety of sources, organize the information, identify problems and recommend action.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed/evaluated the effectiveness of new program objectives and processes to improve the quality of health care in the agency; and/or I have determined resource requirements based on program or project objectives or operational needs; and/or I have identified processes or issues related to clinical social work delivery which were improved or resolved through the collection of data and recommendation; and/or I have independently performed work in a clinical setting with an interdisciplinary team; and/or I have coordinated projects to collect and analyze data leading to the resolution of existing problems; and/or I have collected and analyzed complex data. I have served as a liaison between the agency and governmental/extra-governmental consultants in the area of social work administration functions; and/or I have conducted on/off site consultation services to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the utilization of social work staff; and/or I have created and implemented data collection and analysis for multiple social work programs to determine trends and develop new standards; and/or I have implemented national work groups to resolve issues or create new policies and procedures; and/or I have developed social work positions to meet agency needs; and/or I have recruited and trained social workers to fill newly created positions for special needs inmate/client groups. I have treated psychiatric disorders or medical patients; and/or I have conducted social assessments through organized studies/programs; and/or I have evaluated social service programs for compliances with federal laws and federal regulations; and/or I have presented a written evaluation of documented information in an inmate/clients medical record; and/or I have implemented a database of all cases referred for services to provide technical and research information; and/or I have participated in quality management performance improvement projects. None of the above. 9 The Chief Social Worker assures social work services are provided in compliance with social work licensing laws, legal requirements, policies and programs of the Health Services Division, and requirements of the Joint Commission.&nbsp; He/she must have current knowledge of the principles, philosophies, and professional values related to the field of social work and how they relate to a correctional environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided analytical interpretation of various clinical and administrative data on projects or training which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have evaluated training programs to determine the appropriateness of the training provided to the organization; and/or I have trained social workers throughout the agency on social work ethics, professional values, and current standards for social work practice; and/or I have established national programs for inmates/clients with complex issues (i.e., severely mentally ill, terminally ill, pregnant inmates/clients); and/or I have directed advanced social work practice on an individual and group level to include the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of individuals with the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual disorders. I have designed a group therapy treatment program; and/or I have offered specialized professional counseling to various groups of ethnic and demographic backgrounds; and/or I have enhanced an existing program to achieve treatment goals; and/or I have organized a family assistance program. I have created a social work program that could be replicated at other locations within the agency due to its effectiveness; and/or I have provided clinical social work supervision to social workers seeking advanced licensure; and/or I have performed the full range of clinical social work services, including individual, family, and group counseling and psychotherapy involving the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of individuals with the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual disorders; and/or I have developed treatment and re-entry plans for high priority inmates/clients who present complex medical and mental health needs and are designated at institutions/locations that do not have an on-site social worker. None of the above. 10 The Chief Social Worker provides supervision and guidance to a team of Regional Social Workers who are a part of the Medical Asset Support Team (MAST). &nbsp;He/she is responsible for the continuous evaluation of their subordinate workforce and provides opportunities for growth, training and career development.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assigned and reviewed the work of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit/team; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have developed a formal staff mentoring program; and/or I have developed a class where employees were cross-trained in various areas other than their specific position; and/or I have combined a monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions to improve subordinate employee's job knowledge and performance; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit/team projects and tracked a subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have incorporated training in various division/unit/team/office meetings. I have directed less experienced training instructors in developing, and planning classroom exercises/activities; and/or I have prepared staff performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have served as a supervisor of an organization/unit/team responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).