Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of best practices for the binding and/or preservation of collection materials. ** Applied knowledge of binding techniques to provide for the long-term preservation of library collection materials including: 1) the preparation of monographic materials for commercial binding, 2) the quality review of bound items, 3) the assessment and shelf preparation of library materials, 4) the preparation of materials for shipping, and 5) receiving returned materials. Answer to this question is required Performed procedures required for completing binding/preservation processes including ALL of the above. Performed procedures required for completing binding/preservation processes included FOUR of the above, including 1). Performed procedures required for completing binding/preservation processes including THREE of the above, including 1). None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of receiving, shipping, and material handling procedures and equipment. ** Applied knowledge of principles, practices, and techniques of material cycle management and equipment handling. This includes experience in properly operational storage and distribution activities such as: 1) inspecting incoming shipments for quantity, quality, and condition; 2) sorting and directing materials for appropriate storage, 3) processing or routing, 4) maintaining an accurate record of all items received, delivered, and shipped, 5) allocating and using storage space; 6) preparing packages for internal distribution, and 7) protecting material handling equipment. Answer to this question is required Have extensive materials handling experience performing ALL of the above. Have extensive materials handling experience performing FIVE of the above. Have extensive materials handling experience performing FOUR of the above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to follow instructions and guidelines accurately; paying close attention to details. Applied knowledge of the instructions, policies, procedures, and methods associated with library collection materials including: 1) preparing, examining library material, entering data and verifying the accuracy, completeness, and format of documents (this includes checking consistency, facts, reviewing data, forms, or lists, identifying missing or inconsistent information by electronic documents and data); 2) identifying errors or gaps in information and reporting inconsistencies to the appropriate person(s) and correcting them based on his/her feedback; and 3) handling the material appropriately and following established procedures. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision entered and retrieved data in a system, following standard guidelines and instructions. Followed library rules, procedures, and operations to maintain and process library collections performing ALL of the above. This included assessing, preparing, inspecting and distributing materials to appropriate custodial units. Checked in materials for binding, verifying call numbers and routed materials to the appropriate workflows. With minimal supervision, followed library rules, procedures, and operations to maintain and process library collections performing ALL of the above. This included assessing, preparing, inspecting and distributing materials to appropriate custodial units. Checked in materials for binding, verifying call numbers and routed materials to the appropriate workflows. Entered and retrieved data in a system, following standard guidelines. Checked in materials for binding, verifying call numbers and routed materials to the appropriate workflows. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to receive, locate, store, ship, load, unload, and package materials. Performed the following receiving, locating, storing, shipping, loading, unloading and packaging functions: 1) processed various materials received; 2) loaded and unloaded materials; 3) created storage records and assigned storage locations; 4) stored materials in assigned location and arrangement; 5) facilitated movement of materials in accord with priorities; 6) ensured the proper handling and security of materials; 7) packaged materials for storage and shipping; and 8) ensured suitability and compliance with packaging standards. Answer to this question is required Performed a wide range of materials handling activities including AT LEAST SEVEN of the above within time guidelines. Performed a range of materials handling activities including FIVE or SIX of the above within time guidelines. Performed a range of materials handling activities including FOUR of the above within time guidelines. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).