Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Have you managed a museum conservation laboratory? Answer to this question is required Yes Not directly, but I have served in a senior conservator or team lead function. None of the above. 3 Which of the following represents your experience giving instructions required to treat collections? Answer to this question is required After receiving an assignment (i.e. exhibit installation), I have developed procedures and delegated tasks to a team (staff, interns, and/or volunteers) to accomplish the task. As part of a team, I have managed aspects of an assignment, directing some staff when necessary. I have never lead a team, but have been part of teams to carry out assignments. I have never lead a team, nor have I been part of a team to carry out assignments. 4 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed successfully in projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 What types of personnel do you have experience supervising? (indicate all that apply) Answer to this question is required Full-time personnel. Part-time personnel. Interns. Volunteers. Private-sector contractors. Students and research assistants. Fellows. I do not have any experience with personnel supervising. 7 Which of the following represents your experience in giving and receiving instructions to perform conservation treatment on collections? Answer to this question is required The majority of my previous experience has been in developing conservation procedures, defining treatment methodologies and delegating treatments to staff, interns and/or volunteers. The majority of my experience has been in developing conservation procedures, defining treatment methodologies and performing treatments as a part of a team. The majority of my experience has been in developing conservation procedures, defining methodologies and performing treatments individually. The majority of my experience has been performing treatments which have been devised by another contractor. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with preparing conservation treatment proposals and reports? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to prepare conservation treatment proposals and reports for modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as paintings, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) that include text and photographic images. I have familiar with how to prepare conservation treatment proposals and reports for modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) that include text and photographic images, but do not have experience preparing them. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) that include text and photographic images, under supervision. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) that include text and photographic images, independently. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) that include text and photographic images, independently and have supervised others preparing treatment proposals and reports. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with conservation treatment? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to perform conservation treatment in moder and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media). I am familiar with how to perform conservation treatment modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media), but do not have experience performing treatment. I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) under supervision. I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) independently. I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media) independently and I have supervised others performing treatment. 10 Which of the following analytical tools do you have knowledge of for the purpose of object examination? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Polarized light microscope Binocular microscope Trinocular microscope pH meter UV light Chromatography Infrared spectroscopy X-ray fluorescence (XRF) Raman spectroscopy FTIR Electron microscopy - SEM / SEM-EDS / FE-SEM / TEM-EDS Microfadometer Photomicroscopy Multispectral/hyperspectral imaging None of the above 11 Which of the following types of staff and contractors do you have experience coordinating work with in a museum setting or similar environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Curators and/or researchers Conservators Registrars and/or objects processing staff Building engineers and/or craft trades (plumbers, electricians, HVAC mechanics) Public programmers and/or educators Fabricators and/or exhibits production staff Designers Security officers Photographers Vendors Donors None of the above 12 Do you have experience overseeing the implementation of conservation requirements for museum exhibitions and the monitoring and maintenance of those requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No, but I have worked on museum exhibitions and have assisted in monitoring and maintenance. None of the above. 13 Have you identified the nature and extent of treatment needed for the preservation or conservation of modern or contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the history, techniques and materials of modern and contemporary art? Answer to this question is required I have completed graduate-level courses in art history, museum conservation, or studio art with a concentration in modern and contemporary art. I have completed graduate-level courses in art history, museum conservation, or studio art. I have completed college-level courses in art history or studio art. I have completed courses in art history or studio art. I have had On-the-Job training. None of the above. 15 I have produce technical reports which included examination and treatment proposals, scientist's reports and radiographs, sketches and photographs if needed, to explain the relationship to the choice of treatment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following best describes your experience with the techniques and materials of art work in order to evaluate and document their condition as well as provide packing and storage suggestions? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with a wide variety of art media, including paintings, sculpture, installations, works on paper framed and unframed, and craft media, ranging in size from miniature to monumental. I have experience working with a wide variety of art media, including paintings, sculpture, and works on paper framed and unframed, ranging in size from miniature to monumental. I have experience working with a variety of art media, primarily focused on paintings ranging in size from miniature to monumental. I have little experience working with a variety of art media. I do not have related experience. 17 Do you have knowledge of principles, concepts, and methodologies requisite to perform conservation treatments, e.g., chemistry, material technology and deterioration, and art historical and technological understanding of modern and contemporary artworks in a range of media (such as painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, or time-based media)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Which of the following types of artifacts have you worked with in a museum setting (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic). Drawings, prints and works on paper. Photographs. Collage or mixed media art objects. Film. Audio or Video recordings. Electronic components. Sculpture. Installation art. Ceramics. Glass. Wood. Metalwork. Jewelry. Furniture. Textiles. Decorative arts. Historic artifacts. Books or manuscripts. Magazines, newspapers or other periodicals. Printed ephemera such as postcards, brochures or product information. Pop culture artifacts such as toys, comics, costumes or other consumer goods. None of the above. 19 Which of the following best describes your highest level of budget monitoring for a project? Answer to this question is required I have monitored project expenditures and kept my team informed. I have monitored project expenditures and alerted team members to overspending. I have monitored project expenditures and led a team in agreeing to cut specific expenses. I have monitored project expenditures and cut specific expenses to avoid overspending. I have monitored project expenditures, projected shortages in the out years, and persuaded my team to agree to cut specific expenses. I have not monitored project expenditures in any of these manners. 20 Which of the following tasks best describes your experience with managing budgets? Answer to this question is required I have helped develop budgets based on prior expenditures for similar projects. I have monitored a project budget and expenses to ensure the projects remained within limits. I have monitored multiple project budgets to ensure all projects remained within limits. I have assisted in the development of multi-year, project budgets while collaborating with multiple departments and ensuring the budgets remain on track. I have developed multi-year project budgets (including for traveling exhibitions) while collaborating with multiple departments to ensure all anticipated expenses are captured and projects remained within limits. I have not done any of the above tasks. 21 Which of the following statements best describes your experience performing written communication tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written staff performance evaluations. I have developed and written safety plans. I have developed and written Statement of Work documents. I have developed and written Standard Operating Procedures. I have written a variety types of reports. I have no experience with performing written communication tasks. 22 Which of the following statements best describe your experience determining resources (personnel, equipment, supplies, maintenance, etc.) needed for short- and long-term conservation projects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to determine the resources needed for short- and long-term conservation projects. I am familiar with how to determine the resources needed for short and long-term conservation projects, but do not have experience performing the task. I have determined the resources needed for short- and long-term conservation projects, under supervision. I have determined the resources needed for short- and long-term conservation projects, independently. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.