Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of Agricultural Policy.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles, and/or practices of agricultural policy regarding production of livestock and/or dairy, for example the effects of concentration or the role of federal commodity policies. This includes knowledge of the history, trends, and current status of animal health regulation and inspection, marketing orders, or checkoff programs and interrelationships of federal programs and policies with the positions of key state, industry, academic, and nongovernmental stakeholders. Answer to this question is required Recognized by decision-makers as a professional resource in agricultural commodity policy. For example, served as an agency representative on an inter-agency task force developing policies in agricultural commodity policy, published several articles in peer-reviewed professional journals on agricultural commodity policy, worked as a journalist primarily in agricultural commodity policy for a major newspaper or trade publication relied on by professionals in the field; or equivalent experience. Have broad knowledge of agricultural commodity policy including pertinent public policy issues. For example, administered Federal or State laws or regulations directly related to agricultural commodity policy, conducted original research and analysis used by managers or policy-makers in the public or private sector, taught agricultural commodity policy in a full-time position in a college or university; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of agricultural commodity policy including pertinent public policy issues. For example, independently conducted research related to agricultural commodity policy in a work setting, published research as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional journal on agricultural commodity policy; completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in agricultural commodity policy combined with some applied experience related to a public policy issue in agricultural commodity policy; or equivalent experience. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze public policy issues.** Applied knowledge of agricultural policy on production of livestock and dairy, for example the effects of concentration or role of federal commodity policies. Defined public policy problems, analyzed and synthesized research, interpreted data and drew appropriate conclusions, generated and assessed alternatives, and evaluated the consequences of choosing each alternative; designed and utilized pertinent quantitative and/or qualitative research and analytical methodologies and techniques; presented the big picture and interrelationships within public policy issues. Examples include: 1) identifying emerging issues, 2) evaluating legislative proposals, 3) evaluating budget/appropriations, 4) assessing public and private implications of government programs or regulations, 5) assessing alternative approaches to public policy issues, and 6) evaluating governmental organization and administrative procedures to accomplish program goals. Answer to this question is required Frequently performed at least four of the above examples in conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues related to agricultural commodity policy. These issues were of national and/or international significance in the public or private sectors. This required expert knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the advanced application of a wide range of established analytic techniques and methods. For example, served as a mid-level policy analyst (or equivalent) for a government agency, corporation, think tank, or congressional committee. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. Occasionally performed at least three of the above examples in conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues related to agricultural commodity policy. These issues were of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. This required expert knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a number of established analytic techniques and methods. For example, served as a consultant (or equivalent) for a government agency, corporation, think tank, or congressional committee. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. Have some experience conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a few established techniques and methods. For example, published advanced graduate-level research findings (or equivalent) and in so doing, performed at least two of the above examples in agricultural commodity policy. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to write in a public policy context.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on public policy issues related to agricultural commodity policy in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: decision memos, research analyses, briefing papers, analyses of options, evaluation of legislative proposals, and articles covering a complex public policy issue published in a major national or trade publication. Answer to this question is required Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to agricultural commodity policy and included most of the examples described above. Have some experience writing a variety of analytical products on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to agricultural commodity policy and included some of the examples described above. Wrote at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review, such as a research study for a professional society or think tank, for a manager in the public or private sector, or for a graduate-level degree. This product was related to agricultural commodity policy. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to convey analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to agricultural policy. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Frequently presented analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings included those that were unstructured. Examples include explaining agency or corporate programs to audiences with various levels of knowledge of the issue; briefing and responding to questions from policy-makers; teaching a public policy course; or equivalent experience. Frequently presented analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include making presentations to management officials on policy options; serving as a guest lecturer on public policy issues in an academic setting; or equivalent experience. Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops; serving as a teaching assistant in a public policy graduate program; or equivalent experience. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).