Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience related to the minimum requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a full 4-year degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. I have a combination of education and experience which include at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. Additionally, I have a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination. I have a combination of education and experience which include at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. My education and experience are not defined in one of the above choices. 4 [53037] GS-14: To qualify at the GS-14 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-13 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience conducting performance audits to determine either economy, efficiency, effectiveness or compliance with the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards; modifying objectives, work plans, guidelines, scope, methods, staff requirements, and time schedules to meet project needs; conducting interviews, briefings and exit conferences to acquire/exchange information or facts needed to complete audit assignments or influence acceptance of audit findings and to present findings and recommendations to management officials; designing and conducting comprehensive management studies; preparing long-range and short-range planning guidance; conducting comprehensive studies requiring the application of advanced analytical and statistical methods and techniques; and, preparing and/or reviewing written reports, work papers and other documents in order to appropriately document audit findings and results. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 5 Please indicate all of the following degree(s) or certification(s) that you possess: Answer to this question is required Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Certified Management Accountant (CMA) Certified Government Financial Manager (CGFM) Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) None of the above. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).