Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in 5 out of the 6: (1) Overseeing and managing budget operations, including long- and short-term budget formulation and execution for an organization or a portfolio of projects. (2) Overseeing and managing the identification of project requirements, development of programming documentation for budget submission, and establishment of procurement strategy packages. &nbsp; Managing procurement activities including purchase card programs, contracts, and material management programs. (3) Performing reviews to plan, develop and execute organizational structure changes, processes, and strategic initiatives to improve operations and organizational effectiveness. (4) Ability to provide leadership responsibilities including performance management, employee development, and discipline for a diverse team of tradespeople and professionals. (5) Experience in preparing reports, correspondence, memoranda, and responses to executive staff. (6) Analyze and review policies, directives, instructions, and regulations to develop, revise, implement, and interrupt Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to determine their impact on a Jurisdiction and its programs and activities. 2 Which of the following leadership tasks have you performed? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized employee work assignments. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. None of the above. 3 Select the statement that best reflects your experience in writing, editing, revising, implementing, managing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies. Answer to this question is required I have provided oversight into the development and implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies and procedures affecting programs for a large organization. I participated as a member of a team in the development and implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies and procedures affecting programs for a large organization. I have independently revised and analyzed existing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies and procedures affecting programs for a large organization. I have made recommendations to senior leaders for new or revised Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies and procedures affecting a large organization. I have no experience writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and organizational policies and procedures affecting programs for a large organization. 4 Do you have experience in developing and overseeing multi-million dollar budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. (in 1,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 What tasks did you perform to administer a budget or finance program? Answer to this question is required Advised management on availability of funds and day-to-day management of expenses. Participated in formulating and updating fiscal organizational or project management plans. Assembled and compiled preliminary data to estimate funds needed program or project activities. Compiled information for the annual organizational or project budget. Tracked expenditures, requirements, and deadlines to ensure adequate funding. Recommended and prepared necessary documentation to obtain and use funds. Financial management oversight of procurement, contracting, acquisition programs to make regular budget presentations to/for executives on spending and projections. None of the above. 6 Select the experience developing and monitoring implementation of strategic plans for an organization. Answer to this question is required Experience in creating, recommending, and executing key organization-wide strategies to improve operations and program delivery. Experience in improving the effectiveness or efficiencies of operations. Direct interaction/communication with executive leadership which resulted in implementation of organization-wide changes. Experience creating, recommending, and managing processes across multiple offices within a program and/or operations environment. Establish organizational strategies, service design, process improvements and related programs, and business process streamlining and automation. 7 Which of the following business operations tasks have you performed? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Assessed and improved program effectiveness. Interpreted and provided advice on operating policies, guidelines, and precedents. Developed methods and techniques for forecasting long-range needs. Analyzed and compared program content, cost-benefit, and viability of alternative actions. Interpreted and assessed the impact of new or revised policies and regulations on organizational operations. None of the above. 8 Have you managed contracts or been a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR)?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. (in 1,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement activity or a procurement purchase card purchases? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. (in 1,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 For which audiences have you drafted written materials (e.g., letters, responses to questions, budget documents, training, etc.)? Answer to this question is required Shop workers Executives (e.g., director, deputy director, superintendent) Customers and/or the public None of the above 11 Select all the documents you have developed as a regular part of your job.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Budget request Guidelines or procedural instructions for agency programs, procedures, or regulations Reports, memorandums, correspondence, etc. for the signature of key agency officials Internal agency communications None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.