Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 4 Please identify your level of experience in researching, analyzing, and assisting management on administrative grievances and adverse actions. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 6 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 7 From the following statements, select the task(s) that you have performed as it relates to labor / employee relations activities: Answer to this question is required Ensure the effective delivery of employee relations activities, including adverse actions, employee grievances hearings, reprimands, involuntary separations, and disciplinary actions. Ensure that proper research is conducted to interpret material and documentation that supports the position and policies of the agency. Provides information and prepares comprehensive recommendations to ensure the development and implementation of the employee and labor relations program. Ensure that all necessary Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) position statements and filings, fitness for duty requests, briefs, advisory opinions, and employee communications are well written and cogent. Utilize a high degree of expertise and judgment in assessing situations, anticipating issues, identifying and exploring alternatives, outlining opinions, and resolving problems. Conduct workshops for senior managers, supervisors and employees on the collective bargaining agreements, progressive discipline and other aspects of labor-management relations. Proactively identifies training needs and acts to address them. Ensure the effective delivery of employee relations activities, including adverse actions, employee grievances hearings, reprimands, involuntary separations, disciplinary actions and fitness for duty examinations. Develop and maintain effective working relationships with union officials to ensure the timely and expeditious resolution of grievances and collective bargaining agreement issues. Provide opinions and guidance on the appropriate interpretation of collective bargaining unit agreements. Keep abreast of civil rights, discrimination, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), arbitration and labor law decisions. Develops department strategy across multiple programs and clear, specific, and ambitious performance measures related to priorities; coordinates and directs the work of staff based on volume, priorities, and strategic context. Gather and analyze data for internal and external reporting; evaluates, on quantitative and qualitative basis, effectiveness of programs and special projects towards meeting established goals and objectives. Keep informed about innovations, developments in policy, and research and advises senior management on proposed legislation, policies, and procedures affecting the department and projects assigned. Deal effectively with personnel and operating officials at all levels in the gathering of factual and opinion data and in the discussion of significant issues. Explain both administrative and union grievance rights to employees and managers. Explain all requirements and options on appeal process to employees. Research labor laws and regulations and data in order to recommend solutions to problems. Provide guidance, consultation, and staff assistance to management on labor relation issues. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 9 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.