Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the answer that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required I have a degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science. I have a degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. I have a certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH)). I do not have the basic requirements for the position. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade in the Federal service that provided the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position successfully. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 3 Which one of the following best describes your experience planning, conducting, assessing, and managing complex and comprehensive industrial hygiene assessments using a wide variety of data gathering and analytical techniques? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 4 Do you have experience implementing an effective industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which one of the following best describes your experience establishing, revising, and reviewing policies, procedures, and mission objectives for industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety programs? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 6 At an agency level which of the following do you have experience in developing, reviewing, and evaluating policies, procedures, and programs that comply with federal laws and regulations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Occupational safety and health and industrial hygiene. Environmental protection. Radiation protection. None of the above. 7 Do you have knowledge of Federal OSHA, EPA, DOT, NRC, and NIOSH regulations and policies relating to industrial hygiene and occupational safety and health? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which one of the following best describes your experience identifying the need for special projects and initiating milestones and goals for a industrial hygiene, environmental protection and radiation safety program? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 9 Which of the following types of Industrial Hygiene equipment and instrumentation have you used to assess a workplace area or environment? &nbsp;(Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Calibration equipment Indoor Air Quality Meter Combustible Gas Meters Geiger Counters (Geiger-Mueller (GM)Tube) Air Sampling Pumps. X-Ray Fluorescent Analyzer Thermo-anemometers Photo Ionization Detector (PID) None of the above 10 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of equipment calibration, including the use of span gas for direct-reading instruments/meters, various types of sampling media and different types of calibration devices. Answer to this question is required I have had experience with most of the specialized equipment on this list and have arranged for service and calibration, when needed. I am familiar with the specialized equipment on this list and would be comfortable arranging for all required service and calibration. I know what most of this equipment is and am willing to learn about their service and calibration requirements. I am not familiar with this equipment. 11 Which one of the following best describes your experience developing methods for providing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety support, evaluations, surveys, and studies of an unusual or complex nature? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your ability to conduct Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps? Answer to this question is required Tracking, reviewing and trained others on conducting Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have tracked, reviewed and trained others on conducting Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have tracked, reviewed and conducted Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps. I have completed training in conducting Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps. I have not had experience or training in conducting Industrial Hygiene investigations of Safety and Health mishaps. 13 Which of the following activities have you performed as a regular, recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a spokesperson for the organization on industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety program or project issues to partner or stakeholder agencies. I have developed and issued guidance or policy statements on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues for the organization. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic and/or professional issues with impact on the entire organization. I have provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues that affect the scope of programs or projects. I have mediated or facilitated workshops or partnering sessions between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal group setting. I have built and fostered relationships with external customers, partners, and stakeholders that affect the scope of programs or projects. I have presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals and needs with other organizational entities. I have presented briefings and formal presentations to senior management of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues. I have prepared written reports on organizational program/project status. I have facilitated solutions on controversial issues affecting the scope of programs or project with the public. I have organized and conducted public meetings. None of the above. 14 Which of the following reflects your experience designing new or developing modifications to existing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience reviewing and evaluating the functional design, development, and effectiveness of existing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems. I have experience reviewing and evaluating the functional design, development, and effectiveness of new industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems. I have experience evaluating, testing, and documenting key internal controls over industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems. I have knowledge of formulating policies for the design of industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems that produce reports in compliance with regulations. I have training or knowledge in project management practices for implementing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems. I have project management experience for implementing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety systems (which includes developing project plans, monitoring critical path and timelines, managing project resources, and conducting briefings). I have none of the above. 15 Which of the following best reflects your experience in providing safety training to staff and visitors? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed training plans, manuals, presentations, and delivered safety training to staff visitors and contractors in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have assisted in developing training plans, manuals, and presentations on safety training in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have given oral presentations. I have no experience in this area. 16 Select the answer which best describes the most complex safety and technical documents you have prepared. Answer to this question is required I have prepared a technical report or peer-reviewed manuscript that provided a comprehensive description of a specific health and safety hazard and associated prevention strategies, with citations of reference literature and standards. I have prepared a comprehensive safety and health plan or training program for a company, office or worksite. I have prepared safety and health fact sheets. I have training or education in preparing safety documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have any experience in this area. 17 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate in writing? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda and in making recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in content of draft reports written by others. I have assisted writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have made recommendations to supervisor or higher management regarding changes in style of draft reports written by others. I have assisted writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have assisted in developing written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have assisted in writing clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have assisted in preparing correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have assisted in writing papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have assisted in notifying individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. I have assisted in training others in written communication. I have not performed any of the tasks above. Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required I have a degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science. I have a degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. I have a certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH)). I do not have the basic requirements for the position. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade in the Federal service that provided the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position successfully. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 3 Which one of the following best describes your experience planning, conducting, assessing, and managing complex and comprehensive industrial hygiene assessments using a wide variety of data gathering and analytical techniques? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 4 Do you have experience implementing an effective industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which one of the following best describes your experience establishing, revising, and reviewing policies, procedures, and mission objectives for industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety programs? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 6 At an agency level which of the following do you have experience in developing, reviewing, and evaluating policies, procedures, and programs that comply with federal laws and regulations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Occupational safety and health and industrial hygiene. Environmental protection. Radiation protection. None of the above. 7 Do you have knowledge of Federal OSHA, EPA, DOT, NRC, and NIOSH regulations and policies relating to industrial hygiene and occupational safety and health? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which one of the following best describes your experience identifying the need for special projects and initiating milestones and goals for a industrial hygiene, environmental protection and radiation safety program? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 9 Which of the following types of Industrial Hygiene equipment and instrumentation have you used to assess a workplace area or environment? &nbsp;(Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Calibration equipment Indoor Air Quality Meter Combustible Gas Meters Geiger Counters (Geiger-Mueller (GM)Tube) Air Sampling Pumps. X-Ray Fluorescent Analyzer Thermo-anemometers Photo Ionization Detector (PID) None of the above 10 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of equipment calibration, including the use of span gas for direct-reading instruments/meters, various types of sampling media and different types of calibration devices. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience with most of the specialized equipment on this list and have arranged for service and calibration, when needed. I am familiar with the specialized equipment on this list and would be comfortable arranging for all required service and calibration. I am familiar, to some degree, with the specialized equipment on this list and would be fairly comfortable arranging for all required service and calibration. I know what a few items of this equipment is and am willing to learn about their service and calibration requirements. I do not know what this equipment is. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience providing teamwork services (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have completed tasks critical to the successful and/or timely completion of a whole team's outcome. I have led a team or group of experts of various disciplines and completed work within prescribed schedule. I have developed work plans and project objectives with team members. I have participated in presentation of team results and/or findings to audiences outside immediate organization, including: government officials, public and/or special interest groups, representatives of a regulated industry. I have taught training classes, workshops, seminars and/or other settings. I have played a key role in the development of team recommendations for use in technical or policy decision making or policy development documents. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience developing required training materials for federal workforce staff members? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no experience developing required training materials. 13 Which of the following best reflects your experience in providing industrial hygiene/safety related training to federal workforce staff members? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have given oral presentations regarding safety policy. I have no experience in this area. 14 Which one of the following best describes your experience developing methods for providing industrial hygiene, environmental protection, and radiation safety support, evaluations, surveys, and studies of an unusual or complex nature? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 15 Which of the following best describes your ability to conduct Industrial Hygiene surveys/investigations/assessments of occupational health hazards? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 16 Which of the following activities have you performed as a regular, recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a spokesperson for the organization on industrial hygiene and radiation safety issues to partner or stakeholder agencies. I have provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues that affect the scope of programs or projects. I have mediated or facilitated workshops or partnering sessions between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal group setting. I have presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals and needs with other organizational entities. I have presented briefings and formal presentations to senior management of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues. I have organized and conducted public meetings. None of the above 17 Which of the following reflects your experience designing new or developing modifications to existing industrial hygiene and radiation safety systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am considered and expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision buy a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have none of the above. 18 Select the answer which best describes the most complex safety and technical documents you have prepared. Answer to this question is required I have prepared a technical report or peer-reviewed manuscript that provided a comprehensive description of a specific health and safety hazard and associated prevention strategies, with citations of reference literature and standards. I have prepared a comprehensive safety and health plan or training program for a company, office or worksite. I have prepared safety and health fact sheets. I have training or education in preparing safety documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have any experience in this area. 19 Which of the following reflects your ability to communicate in writing (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am considered and expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision buy a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have none of the above. 20 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience, education or training in serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) with responsibility for managing contracts? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts. I have completed formal education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.