Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Accountants must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted meeting notes for review by others; and/or I have written correspondence to customers and suppliers concerning the status of outstanding orders and invoices; and/or I have communicated with company personnel using the local area network (LAN). I have completed monthly balance and internal control check for review by management; and/or I have drafted correspondence concerning accounting information, such as TDY travel, for review by institution staff; and/or I have sent notifications to debtors requesting settlement of outstanding debts. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memorandums for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operations; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to the Controller's request for data or audit data calls. None of the above. 3.2 Accountants must be able to analyze and evaluate data and/or information in order to identify and solve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed general ledger accounts for proper balances and identified erroneous balances; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to analyze written policies and successfully apply the policies; and/or I have completed financial documents by comparing general ledger entries to source documents; and/or I have reviewed real property files to verify their accuracy. I have identified problems with point of sales terminals by reviewing error reports and corrected the problems; and/or I have reconciled the transportation reserve register to the amount accrued in the general ledger and corrected any errors noted; and/or I have reviewed open liabilities for accuracy and corrected errors. I have collected information from an automated system in order to compile reports; and/or I have identified and corrected pricing errors on inventory; and/or I have generated and provided reports concerning inventory and sales; and/or I have compared source documents to data entered into an automated system and verified their accuracy. None of the above. 3.3 Accountants must demonstrate an ability to organize work in order to successfully accomplish several tasks at the same time while meeting established deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in Program Reviews, reviewing assigned sections effectively and in a timely manner; and/or I have received invoices and prepared payment vouchers within prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have contacted vendors concerning incorrect invoices within prompt payment guidelines. I have created a spreadsheet to reconcile real accounts on a daily basis limiting the number of reconciling items at months end; and/or I have created a procedural manual for others to use ensuring consistency and timeliness of the completion of duties; and/or I have completed monthly account balances and internal control checks with all accounts reconciled by the due date. I have organized incoming and outgoing assignments by utilizing in and out boxes and/or a tickler file; and/or I have developed a check list of duties that need to be completed weekly or monthly; and/or I have planned daily activities according to priority. None of the above. 3.4 Accountants must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved vendor invoice differences in vouchers by reviewing procurement documentation and receiving data; and/or I have reconciled real accounts to subsidiary reports; and/or I have managed a small payroll accounting process on a daily basis. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year-end. I have balanced sales to shipments per revenue recognition policy; and/or I have computed inmate pay in accordance with inmate pay policy; and/or I have established accounts receivables per established guidelines; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have applied the prompt payment guidelines to the processing of payments and notifying vendors of incorrect invoices. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 Accountants must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of GAAP to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have reconciled transportation reserve register amounts to the balance for accrued transportation expense in the general ledger; and/or I have reconciled inmate payroll amounts to the general ledger accrual accounts and related expenses, identified errors, and made the necessary corrective entries; and/or I have pre-audited payment vouchers for accuracy. I have reviewed obligations for accuracy in accordance with written policies; and/or I have reconciled job cost variances from the standard; and/or I have reconciled general ledger accounts balances to the open item reports; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control check. None of the above. 4.2 Accountants must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected inmate payroll data from the source document and entered into the system of record; and/or I have matched vendor invoices to the receipt of goods listing and established payments; and/or I have entered new obligations into the accounting system and verified their accuracy by reviewing obligation reports. I have reviewed job costing data results for accuracy of the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly balances and internal control checks; and/or I have prepared the monthly close out folder from accounting source documents. I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data; and/or I have collected information and made the entries necessary to respond to audit data calls, such as the year-end expense recognitions for accrued payables or staff annual leave; and/or I have prepared annual accounts receivable report. None of the above. 4.3 Accountants must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year-end. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check and made necessary corrections. I have balanced sales to shipments per revenue recognition policy; and/or I have computed inmate pay in accordance with inmate pay policy; and/or I have established accounts receivables per established guidelines; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have applied the prompt payment guidelines to the processing of payments and notifying vendors of incorrect invoices. None of the above. 4.4 Accountants must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems in order to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in an automated system; and/or I have entered invoices into the automated system. I have monitored costing reports to include overhead variance reports, job cost variance reports, material and labor usage reports; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system; and/or I have generated operating results for the factory. I have generated cost variance reports needed to summarize cost standard validation; and/or I have generated reports of property, plant and equipment additions, deletions and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated management reports to prepare the monthly operating results report; and/or I have generated general ledgers to complete the monthly balance and internal control check. None of the above. 4.5 Accountants must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed monthly balance and internal control checks for review by management; and/or I have drafted correspondence concerning accounting information, such as TDY travel, for review by institution staff; and/or I have sent notifications to debtors requesting settlement of outstanding debts. I have prepared written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have proof read written documents for subordinates or co-workers. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memorandums for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operation; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to the Controller's request for data or audit data calls. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).