Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience:&nbsp; (For positions at GS-4 and above:): Experience in operating, supervising the operation of, or instructing in the operation of equipment related to the particular specialization for which application is made. Experience gained in the operation of equipment in a specialization directly related to the specialization may be credited through the GS-5 level. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited as specialized experience for that particular specialization through the GS-5 level. OR B. Education: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, or that included at least 24 semester hours in courses such as those listed for GS-3. Of the 24 semester hours, at least 12 must have been in a field directly related to the specialization of the position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Dialysis Technicians coordinate the workflow of the unit by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have received incoming correspondence and screened prior to distribution for suspense dates; and/or I have maintained employee record cards for personnel within the department; and/or I have filed correspondence, records, and reports. I have gathered information from files for special projects; and/or I have processed time and attendance sheets; and/or I have maintained availability of transportation equipment. I have ensured filing in all dialysis records was accurate and timely filed; and/or I have assisted in maintaining accurate dialysis patient roster; and/or I have coordinated schedules for patient clinic visits and monthly physician rounds; and/or I have ordered office and other supplies before stock depleted. None of the above. 3 Dialysis Technicians must be familiar with a variety of medical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained or documented patient care information; and/or I have transported and positioned patients; and/or I have inventoried medical equipment and supplies. I have obtained and documented vital signs; and/or I have documented intake/output; and/or I have transported and positioned patients before, during and after dialysis, using special equipment as required; and/or I have ordered necessary Dialysis Unit supplies, judging daily, weekly, and quarterly needs; and/or I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies; and/or I have maintained dialysis unit supplies, both medical and office supplies. I have prepared dialysis supplies; and/or I have prepared and mixed biocarbonate and/or special baths for dialysis patients; and/or I have maintained equipment recordings as required by American Academy Medical Instruments (AAMI), Joint Commission of American Hospital Organization (JCAHO) and American Nephrology Nurses Association (ANNA); and/or I have shut down and permeated water systems. None of the above. 4 Dialysis Technician must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with inmate patients, other health care providers, and staff in the health care setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have recognized and reported change in patient physical/psychological condition; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from other departments; and/or I have instructed family members in how to best assist with patients care and activities; and/or I have conveyed non-technical written information in logs/reports/memos. I have responded to inquiries on general issues related to the office; and/or I have assisted visitors with requests for office brochures; and/or I have arranged appointments for management. I have obtained basic complaint(s) or symptoms from patient; and/or I have verified necessary insurance or other information with patient; and/or I have, as necessary, assisted physician in general office examination of patient; and/or I have conveyed urgent or specific messages for physicians or other health care providers. None of the above. 5 Dialysis Technicians must have a practical knowledge of anatomy and physiology and a familiarity with acceptable medical words, terms, and abbreviations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in ambulation; and/or I have collected specimens such as stool, sputum, urine; and/or I have assisted with daily hygiene such as bathing, whirlpool, mouth care, etc. I have drawn blood for testing; and/or I have followed physician orders specific to dialysis technician; and/or I have assisted nurses unfamiliar with dialysis procedures; and/or I have participated in workshop with other medical staff in order to obtain most current skills/procedures. I have transcribed orders under supervision; and/or I have completed on-the-job training experience which provide general familiarity with medical terms; and/or I have completed course work at the college or junior college level which would included the use of terms related to medicine such as anatomy, physiology, human biology. None of the above. 6 Dialysis Technicians must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patients' physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized and recorded rise in temperature; and/or I have recognized and recorded restlessness; and/or I have recognized and recorded lethargy. I have recorded patient's vital signs as instructed; and/or I have recorded basic medical information as instructed; and/or I have reported change in patient's condition to staff. I have recognized signs, reported and recorded mental confusion; and/or I have recognized signs, reported and recorded memory deficit; and/or I have recognized signs, reported and recorded excessive bleeding. None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience:&nbsp; (For positions at GS-4 and above:): Experience in operating, supervising the operation of, or instructing in the operation of equipment related to the particular specialization for which application is made. Experience gained in the operation of equipment in a specialization directly related to the specialization may be credited through the GS-5 level. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited as specialized experience for that particular specialization through the GS-5 level. OR B. Education: Nine semester hours or 13.5 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Dialysis Technicians coordinate the workflow of the unit by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered information from files for special projects; and/or I have processed time and attendance sheets; and/or I have maintained availability of transportation equipment. I made changes where necessary, for accomplishments of day-to-day work; and/or I have reviewed work of lower-level subordinates and provided instruction in developing their skills; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects; and/or I have developed procedures and file systems for the office. I have ensured filing in all dialysis records was accurate and timely filed; and/or I have assisted in maintaining accurate dialysis patient roster; and/or I have coordinated schedules for patient clinic visits and monthly physician rounds; and/or I have ordered office and other supplies before stock depleted. None of the above. 3 Dialysis Technicians must be familiar with a variety of medical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained and documented vital signs; and/or I have documented intake/output; and/or I have transported and positioned patients before, during, and after dialysis, using special equipment as required; and/or I have ordered necessary Dialysis Unit supplies, judging daily, weekly, and quarterly needs; and/or I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies; and/or I have maintained dialysis unit supplies, both medical and office supplies. I have, prior to dialysis treatments daily, started and tested water treatment system and all associated equipment; and/or I have assured single patient, single pass deliver system is properly tested and the alarm systems are activated; and/or I have primed the set-up used for the dialysis treatment on the single pass, single patient machines; and/or I have assisted in highly complex and complicated procedures; and/or I have utilized knowledge of medical aseptic techniques. I have prepared and mixed bicarbonate and/or special baths for dialysis patients; and/or I have maintained equipment recordings as required by American Academy Medical Instruments (AAMI), Joint Commission of American Hospital Organization (JCAHO), and American Nephrology Nurses Association (ANNA); and/or I have shut down and permeated water system. None of the above. 4 Dialysis Technicians must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with inmate patients, other health care providers, and staff in the health care setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed in-service programs and provided on-the-job training for other medical dialysis technicians and inmate workers; and/or I have approached supervisor/physician to clarify order written on patient chart; and/or I have provided clear, concise written and oral reports concerning pertinent patient information and/or correctional/security issues. I have obtained basic complaint(s) or symptoms from patient; and/or I have verified necessary insurance or other information with patient; and/or I have, as necessary, assisted physician in general office examination of patient; and/or I have conveyed urgent or specific messages for physicians or other health care providers. I have participated in developing patient treatment plans; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to less experienced staff; and/or I have reinforced patient teaching/instruction. I have instructed patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have recognized and reported change in patient physical/psychological condition; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from other departments; and/or I have instructed family members in how to best assist with patient's care and activities; and/or I have conveyed non-technical written information in logs/reports/memos. None of the above. 5 Dialysis Technicians must have a practical knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and a familiarity with acceptable medical words, terms, and abbreviations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted as second scrub in minor surgical cases; and/or I have monitored body functions intra-operatively; and/or I have applied oxygen by nasal cannula. I have drawn blood for testing; and/or I have followed physician orders specific to dialysis technician; and/or I have assisted nurses unfamiliar with dialysis procedures; and/or I have participated in workshop with other medical staff in order to obtain most current skills/procedures. I have assisted in ambulation; and/or I have collected specimens, such as, stool, sputum, urine; and/or I have assisted with daily hygiene, such as, bathing, whirlpool, mouth care, etc. None of the above. 6 Dialysis Technicians must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patient's physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized and recorded a rise in temperature; and/or I have recognized and recorded restlessness; and/or I have recognized and recorded lethargy. I have observed and recorded post-operative signs and symptoms; and/or I have recognized, reported, and recorded change in patient's LOC; and/or I have reported change or inability in urinary or bowel functions; and/or I have recognized and reported change in patient's ability to function; and/or I have recognized and reported any subtle change in mental alertness. I have recognized, reported, and recorded mental confusion; and/or I have recognized, reported, and recorded memory deficit; and/or I have recognized, reported, and recorded excessive bleeding. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).