Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: SL No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please describe your demonstrated experience in providing executive leadership in the direction, planning, development and implementation of programs, policies, and priorities related to law enforcement/security and emergency management programs for a&nbsp;large, geographically dispersed organization. Experience should include programs such as basic law enforcement training, weapons training, physical security, and criminal investigation. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your advanced written and oral communication skills, as evidenced by being able to deal with diverse audiences in difficult circumstances such as testifying in court or being deposed. Ability to deliver a controversial message to an audience while maintaining composure under pressure. Ability to make clear presentations to the highest levels of institutional leadership as well as to entry level staff. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your demonstrated skill in building cooperative relationships between colleagues and organizations within your oversight, and with stakeholders inside and outside the Institution. This includes ability to develop, sustain and leverage relationships with key managers as well as build relationships with critical external partners (i.e., Law Enforcement agencies, National Park Service, etc.) and establish a presence in the professional community. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your demonstrated management experience and skill in the development and administration of budgets, creating strategic plans, goal&nbsp;setting, and implementation of results-based programs or performance measures that have increased&nbsp;productivity. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Please describe your demonstrated ability to lead and manage a high-performing, multi-disciplinary workforce, including building and sustaining a positive work environment, setting clear expectations, holding staff accountable, and attracting, developing, and motivating employees. Include examples of how you foster teamwork, address performance or conduct issues, and reinforce a culture of professionalism, integrity, and continuous improvement. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.