Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the answer that best describes your educational background. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or higher degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. I have a combination of education and experience that include courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as stated in item 1 above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I do not possess the education as described above. 2 GS-12: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Government. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Experience assisting with Al/ML model development and data processing; 2) supporting cloud-based deployment and monitoring; 3) applying analytical and machine-learning methods to identify patterns or emerging trends; and 4) collaborating with technical teams to implement practical, data-driven solutions. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes your educational background. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or higher degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. I have a combination of education and experience that include courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as stated in item 1 above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I do not possess the education as described above. 2 GS-13: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Government. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Experience developing and evaluating Al/ML models; 2) designing and maintaining data ingestion and transformation workflows; 3) working with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery/Deployment (CI/CD) tools and pipelines; 4) deploying and monitoring models in cloud environments; 5) conducting analytical research to identify patterns trends or emerging trends; and 6) collaborating with technical and program teams to implement Al-enabled solutions. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which statement best describes your experience solving technical AI/ML problems in ambiguous or novel situations? Answer to this question is required No experience. Assisted others in resolving ambiguous technical problems. Independently solved ambiguous or novel AI/ML problems. Led teams developing new analytical methods in ambiguous or emerging scenarios. Oversaw enterprise level creation of new AI/ML methodologies under ambiguity. 12 Which statement best describes your experience evaluating and preparing data sets for AI/ML models? Answer to this question is required No experience. Worked with spreadsheets to review and cleanse and prepare data sets. Developed relational database queries to cleanse and prepare data sets. Developed relational database queries and automated scripts to cleanse and prepare data sets. 13 Which statement best reflects your experience applying AI/ML to detect risks, hazards, early indicators, signals, or emerging trends? Answer to this question is required No experience applying AI/ML for hazard or risk detection. Supported analytics related to hazards or risks. Developed AI/ML models used for hazard, risk, or early signal detection. Led project teams deploying operational hazard or risk detection systems. 14 Select the areas of responsible AI, governance, or compliance in which you have experience. (Multiple answers allowed) Answer to this question is required Model risk assessments (fairness, bias, robustness, transparency) Model documentation (model cards or equivalent) Model performance monitoring and tuning Reproducibility, lineage, or traceability standards Secure ML operations (data security, access control, auditability) None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your experience developing partnerships and collaborations? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have connected individuals and groups to develop partnerships and collaborations with team members and colleagues, including public and private-sector representatives and their staff and government officials. I have developed partnerships and collaborations with internal team members. I have developed partnerships and collaborations with team members and colleagues, including public and private-sector representatives and their staff and government officials. I have developed long lasting, mission critical partnerships and collaborations with team members and colleagues, including public and private-sector representatives and their staff and government officials. 16 Which statement best describes your experience integrating AI/ML outputs into operational workflows or processes? Answer to this question is required No experience integrating AI/ML outputs into operations. Provided analyses that informed operational teams. Developed AI/ML outputs occasionally used for operational decisions. Led integration of AI/ML systems into routine operational workflows. Architected and deployed AI/ML systems that automated or replaced manual workflows. 17 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 19 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 20 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).