Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed all mandatory training prescribed for progression to GS-14 or higher level contracting positions, including at least four (4) years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least one (1) year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to the work at the next lower level (GS-13), and that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the work of the position. AND I have successfully completed of a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have successfully completed all mandatory training prescribed for progression to GS-14 or higher level contracting positions, including at least four (4) years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least one (1) year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to the work at the next lower level (GS-13), and that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the work of the position. AND I meet the standards for the GS-1102 position that I held on January 1, 2000. I do not meet the qualification requirements stated above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal government service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have a current FAC-C Professional certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar construction contracts and Architect/Engineer (A/E) services? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have a Design and/or Construction Contract experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 What activities do you have experience performing routinely with little or no supervision? Answer to this question is required Interpret and apply program policies, procedures, and regulations. Develop special clauses, terms and/or conditions applicable to a solicitation. Terminate contracts for default or convenience and negotiate settlements. Assess program needs, identify risks, solve problems, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant controversial issues. None of the above. 7 Which tasks did you perform to determine the necessity, fairness, and reasonableness of proposed contract costs? Answer to this question is required Devised multiple incentives that required the use of sophisticated contracting techniques. Shared cost risk arrangements, such as cost-plus-incentive-fee or fixed-price-incentive-fee. Prepared economic price adjustment clauses that identified the basis for adjusting labor or material costs where pricing could not be reasonably predicted at the time of contract negotiation. Gathered and evaluated price and/or cost data for pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Performed basic analyses for firm fixed-price contracts. None of the above. 8 Which contract provisions have you evaluated to determine their appropriateness? Answer to this question is required Cost accounting standards Subcontracting plans Technical requirements and evaluation factors Patent, copyright and/or proprietary data Cost escalation factors Cost data requirements Government furnished property Incentives Progress payments None of the above 9 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 10 Select the tasks that you routinely performed and for which you have provided assistance and/or training. Answer to this question is required Interpreted and applied program policies, procedures, and regulations. Developed special clauses, terms, and/or conditions applicable to a solicitation. Terminated contracts for default or convenience and negotiated settlements. Assessed program needs, identified risks, solved problems, defended, negotiated, or settled matters involving significant controversial issues. None of the above. 11 I am responsible for all phases of contract administration including modifications, renegotiation of cost or specifications, claims, settlement of disputes, determinations of compliance, and final closeout. Answer to this question is required True False 12 I have advised senior executives, customers, and managers, as a central or major part of my job, on the policies, procedures, and practices of security and facility management contracts related to planning, market research, soliciting, awarding, and administration.&nbsp; I have performed this function independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. Answer to this question is required True False 13 Select the tasks that you performed in the negotiation and source selection process. Answer to this question is required Guided customers/partners through the review, negotiation, and evaluation of bids and proposals process. Made award decisions. Documented source selection decisions and drafted contracts that included agreed upon terms, conditions, special provisions, and negotiated price. Engaged in source selection activities to debrief offers and/or respond to protests. Developed new or modified evaluation criteria, reporting requirements, and contractual arrangements for supplies and services. Planned the negotiated strategies for large, highly complex, and significant systems, programs, or services where little contractual precedent existed. Negotiated procurements for long-term systems, programs, or service where no precedents were available. None of the above. 14 What is the largest contact (in dollars) you have awarded? Answer to this question is required $500,000-1 million $1-5 million $5.1-25 million $25.1-50 million More than $50 million None of the above 15 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to a contract protest? Answer to this question is required I have deferred contract protests to supervisors or senior-level staff to respond. I have assisted senior staff when responding to protests (e.g., taking notes, gathering information). I have independently responded to protests, including collaborating with legal representatives, leading discussions between parties, and making final settlement decisions. I have provided guidance and instruction to others on how to respond to protests. None of the above. 16 Do you have experience interpreting policies, regulations, and legal guidelines for others (e.g., coworkers, contractors) to provide implementation guidance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which materials have you written to present factual information? Answer to this question is required Memoranda Meeting minutes Contract provisions Supporting documents None of the above 18 Select the contracts for which you have provided technical guidance and advice. Answer to this question is required Fixed-Price Contracts Cost-Reimbursement Contracts Incentive Contracts Indefinite Delivery Vehicle Contracts Letter Contracts Labor-Hour Contracts Multi-year Contracts None of the above 19 What written materials have you prepared, reviewed, and revised relating to contract and procurement activities? Answer to this question is required Acquisition plans Market research Sources sought notices Source selection plans Justifications and Approvals Solicitations Inter-agency agreements Determinations and findings Reports None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.