Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 The mandatory training that follows is required by the head of the U.S. Department of State for this position, unless a waiver is granted. Carefully read all possible answer responses before making a selection. Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience, OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have a Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) certification OR a Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Contracting (Professional) certification and have completed 80 Continuous Learning Points every two years. IN ADDITION to completing the mandatory FAC-C (Professional) or DAWIA Contracting (Professional) training requirements, I have at least 4 years of experience in contracting or related positions and completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field from an accredited college or university AND this degree included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have a Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) certification OR a Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Contracting (Professional) certification and have completed 80 Continuous Learning Points every two years. IN ADDITION to completing the mandatory FAC-C (Professional) or DAWIA Contracting (Professional) training requirements, I have continuously occupied my position, which is classified in the GS-1102 series, since January 1, 2000. I do not meet any of the basic qualification requirements described above. 2 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the responses from the following list of contract / procurement / acquisition areas that would best describe your experience. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Conducting Price / Cost Analyses Industry Pricing Trends and Marketing Practices Developing Negotiation Objectives Conducting Negotiations Best Value Procurement Performance Based Contracts Past Performance Oral Proposals Section 508 Competitive Source Selection Process Collective Bargaining Agreements / DOL Procedures Novation Agreements and Assignment of Claims None of the above. 6 Which tasks related to acquisition planning have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determination of need Analyzing the requirements Extent of the competition Source selection planning Solicitation terms and conditions None of the above 7 What parts of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) do you apply on a routine basis? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Part 8 - Programs Part 12 - Commercial Items Part 13 - Simplified Acquisitions Part 14 - Sealed Bids Part 15 - Negotiated Procurements Part 19 - Small Business Programs Part 36 - Construction and A & E Part 42 - Contract Administration and Audit Services Part 43 - Contract Modifications I have no experience applying the FAR 8 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Answer to this question is required Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 9 Select the choices that describe work activities you have performed in project management: Answer to this question is required Managed a project (or significant portion) from its inception through completion. Conducted requirements analysis (e.g., defined project objectives, scope and deliverables; set goals, standards and methods to monitor progress). Developed action plans and milestones. Administered project (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and/or stakeholders. Implemented project plans including quality assurance processes, project documentation, and post project reviews and/or evaluations. Responded to evaluation and feedback concerning recommended changes and/or improvements. None of the above. 10 Which of the following acquisitions / procurement-related functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required Requisitioned supplies, services and equipment. Recommended and applied new business process theories. Performed market research. Evaluated vendors. Conducted vendor sourcing. Established vendor agreements. Conducted technical evaluation. Performed a simplified acquisition procurement. Produced a delivery order. Recommended improvement to policies. Managed a project with low or moderate risk for a major acquisition. Managed a project with high risk for a major acquisition. None of the above. 11 Which project management tasks (related to contracting and procurement) have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Negotiated with third party organizations Made decisions on equipment purchases Served on source selection panels Signed acceptance letters on contractor deliverables Approved test and other certification requirements Performed quality assurance verifications on contractor work Approved payments of Government funds Determined contractor awards or penalties None of the above 12 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no work experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 13 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above. 14 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.