Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Please select the answer which best reflects your experience working with genomics and bioinformatics to analyze, interpret, and disseminate data sets. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in the development of bioinformatics applications, including algorithm design, implementation, unit testing, version control, deployment, and maintenance. I have limited experience in the development of bioinformatics applications, including algorithm design, implementation, unit testing, version control, deployment, and maintenance. I have had education or training in the development of bioinformatics applications, including algorithm design, implementation, unit testing, version control, deployment, and maintenance, but have not used it as a primary component of a full-time job. I have no knowledge in the development of bioinformatics applications, including algorithm design, implementation, unit testing, version control, deployment, and maintenance. 5 Please indicate which of the following you have working experience with (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Genome Assembly pipelines Organelle Assembly pipelines Target Enrichment/UCE pipelines Genome Annotation pipelines Phylogenetic Analysis pipelines Functional Analysis pipelines eDNA Analysis pipelines 6 Which of the following best describes your level of work experience with the development and use of bioinformatic/genomic data pipelines? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data generation processes across multiple platforms, with the ability to evaluate platform-specific data characteristics, quality metrics, and downstream implications for genomic analysis and pipeline development. I have some experience in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data generation processes across multiple platforms, with the ability to evaluate platform-specific data characteristics, quality metrics, and downstream implications for genomic analysis and pipeline development I have limited experience in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data generation processes across multiple platforms, with the ability to evaluate platform-specific data characteristics, quality metrics, and downstream implications for genomic analysis and pipeline development, but have been trained to do so. I have no work experience in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data generation processes across multiple platforms, with the ability to evaluate platform-specific data characteristics, quality metrics, and downstream implications for genomic analysis and pipeline development. 7 Please indicate which of the following you have working experience with (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required R programming language Python GIT/GITHUB BASH and Linux shell Perl or JavaScript MATPLOTLIB NextFlow SnakeMate GGPlot2 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with phylogenetic analyses and visualizations? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in managing production analytics and visualization resources, applications, to support shared analyses and visualization with internal team(s) and the public. I have some experience in managing production analytics and visualization resources, applications, to support shared analyses and visualization with internal team(s) and the public. I have limited experience managing production analytics and visualization resources, applications, to support shared analyses and visualization with internal team(s) and the public. I have no experience in managing production analytics and visualization resources, applications, to support shared analyses and visualization with internal team(s) and the public. 9 Please indicate which of the following you have working experience with (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Phylogenetic visualizations Tree-based visualizations R Shiny Metabarcoding analyses mitogenome analyses 10 Which of the following responses best describe your experience with training workshops and individuals in bioinformatics pipeline development and usage? Answer to this question is required I have instructor certifications and have led, conducted and been an instructor for multiple formal workshops on many aspects of bioinformatic pipeline analysis and high performance computing usage I have helped out with workshops or trainings focused on modules, but was not the coordinator/leader of any workshops. I have shown other individuals or small groups how to do some analyses, but in an informal way. I have used pipelines but not instructed others in the usage of them. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in analyzing technically complex documents and data? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task, with close supervision from a supervisor, senior employee or an advisor or mentor. I have performed this task as a part of the job, but with review by a supervisor or senior employee or mentor. I have performed this task extensively, supervised performance of this task, have trained others or am often consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.