Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 GS-12: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-12: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience performing troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, performing troubleshooting I have knowledge of, or education in, performing troubleshooting but no experience I have assisted others in performing troubleshooting I have performed troubleshooting to isolate and resolve software/hardware problems I have performed troubleshooting and have used this experience to manage/train others 4 Indicate all of the environments in which you have performed troubleshooting: Answer to this question is required In production environments In testing and lab environments For customers or help desk For instructional purposes None of the above 5 Which tools have you used to implement web security? Answer to this question is required Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Biometrics Single Sign-on (user ID/password) None of the above 6 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with managing and maintaining Microsoft SQL Server. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed or assisted others in performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience troubleshooting malfunctioning servers? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience troubleshooting malfunctioning servers. I have knowledge of, or training and/or education in troubleshooting malfunctioning servers, but no work experience. I have been a working member of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions. Tasks were assigned to me by a senior staff member. I have been a core member of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions, with responsibility for managing a specific portion of the installation effort. I have functioned as the overall manager of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions, with responsibility for all phases of the installation effort. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience configuring network servers? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience configuring network servers. I have knowledge of, or training and/or education in configuring network servers, but no work experience. I have been a working member of a team that configured network servers. Tasks were assigned to me by a senior staff member. I have been a core member of a team that configured network servers, with responsibility for managing a specific portion of the configuration effort. I have functioned as the overall manager of a team that configured network servers, with responsibility for all phases of the configuration effort. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describes your knowledge of the Network Appliance (NetAPP) systems installation, configuration and engineering? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, using the NetAPP system. I have knowledge of, or education using the NetAPP system. I have assisted others in installation, configuration and engineering the NetAPP system. I have installed, configured and engineered the NetAPP system with assistance from a colleague or a supervisor. I have installed, configured and engineered the NetAPP system as a regular part of my job. 10 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with maintaining virtual environments? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in maintaining virtual environments. I have formal education or training in maintaining virtual environments, but have not applied this in a work situation. I have experience in maintaining virtual environments on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have experience in maintaining virtual environments as a regular part of the job, independently for more than a year. I have routinely maintained virtual environments. I have trained others in this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in maintaining virtual environments. 11 Which of the following IT packages have you used in your duties as a manager of an IT data center? Answer to this question is required Windows OS VMWare Tivoli Security Software Antivirus Software Backup Software Other None of the above 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with VMware storage administration? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with VMware storage administration. I have formal education or training in VMware storage administration, but have not applied this in a work situation. I have experience in VMware storage administration on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have experience in VMware storage administration working independently as a regular part of the job. I have trained others in the use of VMware storage administration and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in using VMware storage. 13 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with managing Network Appliance Filers in a CIFS Windows network environment. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed or assisted others in performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 14 For which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience performing troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, performing troubleshooting I have knowledge of, or education in, performing troubleshooting but no experience I have assisted others in performing troubleshooting I have performed troubleshooting to isolate and resolve software/hardware problems I have performed troubleshooting and have used this experience to manage/train others 4 Indicate all of the environments in which you have performed troubleshooting: Answer to this question is required In production environments In testing and lab environments For customers or help desk For instructional purposes None of the above 5 Which tools have you used to implement web security? Answer to this question is required Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Biometrics Single Sign-on (user ID/password) None of the above 6 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with managing and maintaining Microsoft SQL Server. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed or assisted others in performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience troubleshooting malfunctioning servers? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience troubleshooting malfunctioning servers. I have knowledge of, or training and/or education in troubleshooting malfunctioning servers, but no work experience. I have been a working member of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions. Tasks were assigned to me by a senior staff member. I have been a core member of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions, with responsibility for managing a specific portion of the installation effort. I have functioned as the overall manager of a team that reviewed malfunctioning servers to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations were causing malfunctions, with responsibility for all phases of the installation effort. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience configuring network servers? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience configuring network servers. I have knowledge of, or training and/or education in configuring network servers, but no work experience. I have been a working member of a team that configured network servers. Tasks were assigned to me by a senior staff member. I have been a core member of a team that configured network servers, with responsibility for managing a specific portion of the configuration effort. I have functioned as the overall manager of a team that configured network servers, with responsibility for all phases of the configuration effort. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describes your knowledge of the Network Appliance (NetAPP) systems installation, configuration and engineering? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, using the NetAPP system. I have knowledge of, or education using the NetAPP system. I have assisted others in installation, configuration and engineering the NetAPP system. I have installed, configured and engineered the NetAPP system with assistance from a colleague or a supervisor. I have installed, configured and engineered the NetAPP system as a regular part of my job. 10 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with maintaining virtual environments? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in maintaining virtual environments. I have formal education or training in maintaining virtual environments, but have not applied this in a work situation. I have experience in maintaining virtual environments on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have experience in maintaining virtual environments as a regular part of the job, independently for more than a year. I have routinely maintained virtual environments. I have trained others in this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in maintaining virtual environments. 11 Which of the following IT packages have you used in your duties as a manager of an IT data center? Answer to this question is required Windows OS VMWare Tivoli Security Software Antivirus Software Backup Software Other None of the above 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with VMware storage administration? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with VMware storage administration. I have formal education or training in VMware storage administration, but have not applied this in a work situation. I have experience in VMware storage administration on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have experience in VMware storage administration working independently as a regular part of the job. I have trained others in the use of VMware storage administration and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in using VMware storage. 13 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with managing Network Appliance Filers in a CIFS Windows network environment. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed or assisted others in performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 14 For which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.