Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of manuscript collections.** Applied knowledge of manuscript collections related to Americana in a library, museum or archives by 1) delivering talks, assembling collection displays, and providing instruction about archival resources relating to U.S. history, 2) providing onsite and remote reference or research services related to manuscript collections, 3) developing expertise in one or more areas of U.S. history through use of archival and manuscript sources, 4) writing reports, articles, and blog posts showcasing the repository&rsquo;s holdings and their research value, 5) arranging and processing manuscript collections for research use, 6) recommending for acquisition personal papers and organizational records, and 7) promoting the use of a repository&rsquo;s collections in books, articles, documentaries, and exhibitions. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive knowledge of manuscript collections related to Americana to execute a broad range of library, museum or archival functions and programs, including at least SIX (6) of the above. Demonstrated extensive knowledge of manuscript collections related to Americana to execute a range of library, museum or archival functions and programs, including at least FIVE (5) of the above. Demonstrated knowledge of manuscript collections related to Americana to execute a range of library, museum or archival functions and programs, including at least FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the principles and techniques of library or archival collections development.** Applied knowledge of the principles and techniques of library or archival collections development to direct all efforts in acquiring collections through gift, deposit, transfer, exchange and purchase in a library or archives environment or research organization. This included performing the following tasks: 1) created and recommended collections development policies; 2) established guidelines and procedures to research, analyze, evaluate, approve, and acquire selected collections of both analog and born digital materials; 3) interpreted and advised on the content of collections and negotiated gift and purchase agreements; 4) evaluated and gave final approval to acquire collections; 5) developed strategies to build cohesive collections that meet researchers' needs now and in the future; and 6) made recommendations for new technology, equipment and supplies. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of the principles and techniques of library or archival collections development to direct all efforts in acquiring collections through gift, deposit, transfer, exchange and purchases in a library environment or research organization. In doing so, independently performed ALL of the above duties. Applied expert knowledge of the principles and techniques of library or archival collections development to direct all efforts in acquiring collections through gift, deposit, transfer, exchange and purchases in a library environment or research organization. In doing so, independently performed FIVE (5) of the above duties. Applied expert knowledge of the principles and techniques of library or archival collections development to direct all efforts in acquiring collections through gift, deposit, transfer, exchange and purchases in a library environment or research organization. In doing so, independently performed FOUR (4) of the above duties. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to lead and supervise a workforce.** Led, supervised and managed a workforce at a government, corporate, academic, or nonprofit library or archival organization and, in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production and accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved and disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates for positions, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality and maximize employee potential, and 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products communicating complex and specialized issues related to information services and archival management. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Examples include: (1) policies and procedures, (2) strategic planning documents, (3) annual reports, (4) memoranda and external correspondence, (5) collection analyses, (6) technical proposals, (7) statistical reports, (8) budget documentation, 9) historical analyses and collection-based research reports, and 10) performance management documents. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents. As a principal author, independently wrote at least EIGHT (8) of the above documents. As principal author, independently wrote at least SEVEN (7) of the above documents. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Served as an official spokesperson or representative and provided consultation or liaison duties related to collection acquisitions, archival administration, and other aspects of an organization&rsquo;s programs and policies. Initiated, established and maintained professional relationships with archivists, librarians, scholars, donors, and other specialists in order to share resources and information. These contacts also included learned societies, foundations, research centers and interested groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Served as an official spokesperson and principal liaison for an archives, research library, or large cultural organization to the news media and at professional conferences, seminars, meetings, or exhibits and initiated or established professional relationships with other individuals or groups in order to share resources and information. Maintained professional standing through a variety of methods such as participation in conferences, seminars, or professional organizations and explained or presented specialized or technical information on historical or archival topics to groups or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience, including the news media. Recommended changes in archival or library procedures or workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals or groups. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to coordinate projects and set priorities. Plans and directs the work of an organization, section or service unit in a library or archives. Coordinates projects, directs assignments, sets long-term vs. short-term priorities, manages deadlines and multiple priorities, and completes complex assignments with schedule constraints. This includes: 1) develops strategies for acquisitions, collection management, digitization, exhibitions, public programming/outreach, 2) sets priorities for acquisitions/outreach projects, 3) writes reports and creates and documents workflows for the acquisition/appraisal of manuscript collections, 4) serves as project or team lead for specified projects, 5) identifies and implements new services/technologies, 6) plans and directs research, reference, and outreach assignments for staff, and 7) develops and implements policies/procedures for the acquisition, processing, declassification, digitization, display, and research use of archival materials. Answer to this question is required Routinely and independently coordinated projects and set priorities for multiple assignments/projects while adapting to conflicting priorities and changing deadlines. In doing so, performed ALL of the above duties. Independently coordinated projects and set priorities for multiple assignments/projects while adapting to conflicting priorities and changing deadlines. In doing so, performed SIX (6) of the above duties. Routinely accomplished a variety of duties to complete projects and set priorities for multiple assignments/projects while adapting to conflicting priorities and changing deadlines. In doing so, performed FIVE (5) of the above duties. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).