Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Have you assisted in the building management and/or facilities operations and maintenance functions for a large, complex building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience analyzing and formulating program requirements related to government contract administration, federal procurement, training, resource management, and property accountability; making recommendations, and/or initiating a course of action? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following facility management duties do you have experience performing in a professional environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal Procurement Training Resource Management Property Accountability Analyzing and Formulating program requirements related to government contracts None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial employees? Answer to this question is required I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial operations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial operations but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial operations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial operations. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial operations as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your management experience resolving work related conflicts in the office? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training resolving work related conflicts in the office. I have management experience resolving work related conflicts in the office under close supervisor by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in resolving work related conflicts in the office and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in resolving work related conflicts in the office, but have not yet performed this task as a manager. I have experience resolving work related conflicts in the office, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 7 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge, training, and experience in supervising a facility operations work force? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge, training, and experience in supervising a facility operations work force; and/or have led a workforce of highly skilled workers as a major part of my work, and/or have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in supervising a facility operations work force; and have led a workforce of highly skilled workers on the job under close supervision by a supervisor. I have not had experience, education, or training in supervising a facility operations work force. I have knowledge, training, and experience in supervising a facility operations work force; and have led a workforce of highly skilled workers as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor. 8 In which of the following facilities management areas do you have experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required HVAC systems Energy management Plumbing systems Environmental management Safety and security Custodial services Painting Electrical Structural Laborer services Pest control None of the above 9 Have you provided services involving space planning, office moves, facilities and/or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have experience using automated facility management database systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). 12 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to present ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. 14 Which of the following types of written correspondence, reports or other documents do you have experience writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data which includes analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues Policy statements and guidance Procedural guidance Report findings on studies Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems Recommendations for solutions to policy problems Organizational assessments Product/Process evaluation assessments None of the above 15 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager, I have orally presented ideas and decisions to office staff so as to provide directions. I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience that was not responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated administrative information to internal audiences. I have not done any of the above tasks. 16 Which of the following best describes your ability to utilize skill in counseling, conciliation, and conflict resolution techniques? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without the review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, None of the above. Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with applying analytical and evaluating methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating current operations and researching/implementing best practices related to facilities management? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Indentify the highest level of responsibility you have attained in facility management, facility engineering, engineering in general, construction or project management and/or your current position. Answer to this question is required I have supervised other professional staff I worked in a peer relationship with other professional staff I worked under the close supervision of other professional staff I gathered information to be used by other professional staff for project or program work. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving problems, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services? Answer to this question is required I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services on the job (under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee). I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have not had education or training in assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving programs, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in leadership concepts and principles? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and has led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and has led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience developing, administering, and evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development? Answer to this question is required I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in developing or using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Identify your highest level of work experience in budgeting and financial planning for facility maintenance and repair programs, or specific repair, renovation and/or construction projects. Answer to this question is required I have advanced work experience in providing senior management on budgeting and financial planning of maintenance and repair projects and programs I have work experience that demonstrates the ability to handle complex maintenance and repair budgeting/planning issues I have one or more years of full time experience in budgeting and/or planning for preventive and predictive maintenance and repair projects. I have formal training or education in financial management techniques; however I have not yet applied this ability in work situations None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating in writing to people/staff with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicate in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in communicate in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following specific types of written products do you have experience producing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data which included analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues. Policy statements and guidance. Procedural guidance. Report findings on studies. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Recommendations for solutions to policy problems. Organizational assessments. Product/Process evaluation assessments. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally to people with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely for the purpose of effectively negotiating agreements, settlements, solutions or consensus and/or defending complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 13 Select the response choice that best describes your experience communicating with others regarding technical issues: Answer to this question is required I have served as facilities management expert to include overseeing and advising staff on all program matters pertaining to the operation and maintenance of facilities, to include space management, emergency management, custodial management, and tenant services programs. I have served as a technical advisor to senior leadership on facilities management programs, to include evaluating programs for effectiveness and developing program improvements plans. I have served as a performance improvement expert, assessing a variety of organizational programs and developing plans to increase effectiveness and efficiency. I have evaluated proposed changes in regulations or processes for their impact on operations and made recommendations for official policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.