Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Telecommunication Specialist must communicate with individuals internal and external to the organization. Internal contacts include but are not limited to all institutional personnel, inmates, and Regional and Central Office personnel. External contacts include representatives from local utilities, contractors, vendors, engineers, and members of the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information on the merits of a new system during internal meetings; and/or I have provided advice/guidance/instruction to non-technical personnel on the operation of telecommunications equipment; and/or I have coordinated and facilitated meetings/briefings with mid-level management, contractors, and vendors to resolve issues encountered. I have represented the agency/organization as chairperson for a workgroup regarding telecommunications issues; and/or I have developed and presented policy on electronic security or telecommunications systems; and/or I have developed and presented instructional programs on a variety of complex telecommunication topics; and/or I have presented complex technical issues or obstacles and provided solutions. I have served on a workgroup as an agency representative with representatives of other organizations regarding various telecommunications topics; and/or I have presented instructional or informational programs regarding telecommunications topics to peer groups; and/or I have conducted technical briefing in a group or private setting. None of the above. 5 The Telecommunication Specialist initiate and submit reports for usage internal and external to the organization in accordance with Bureau of Prisons and national policy. He/she are responsible for developing Statements of Work (SOW) for procurement of electronic or communication systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and prepared technical policies for agency/organizational use; and/or I have produced detailed technical specifications for use as bid documents (i.e., security systems upgrades and replacements, control center electronics renovations, two-way radio replacements, etc.); and/or I have assisted staff members in writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for telecommunication or security systems. I have written Statements of Work (SOW) for agency-wide use in the procurement of communication or electronic systems; and/or I have written Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on a variety of telecommunication security systems; and/or I have written a dissertation for a graduate or post graduate course; and/or I have written a technical article for a national publication (i.e., magazine/technical journal). I have prepared status reports for management (i.e., annual equipment reports, project status reports on security system upgrade projects, etc.); and/or I have prepared a determination of need for a technical project; and/or I have prepared internal operating procedures, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), institutional supplements for use by co-workers/peers; and/or I have written an article for publication in an internal newsletter. None of the above. 6 The Telecommunication Specialist is responsible for serving as technical evaluation team members during the procurement of communications systems. Therefore, he/she must have knowledge of methods used by contracting to establish a contract and resolve discrepancies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a plan for the preparation of a clear, concise, and technical Statement of Work (SOW); and/or I have provided oversight, guidance, and direction to the team during the preparation of the Statement of Work (SOW); and/or I have identified evaluation criteria and performance standards to determine the basis of the award for the contract; and/or I have created justifications for sole source procurement or other than full and open competition. I have researched, interpreted, and applied appropriate contract regulations and related technical requirements during the contracting process; and/or I have evaluated the merit of technical proposals in response to a solicitation; and/or I have served as a Contracting Officers Representative (COR) or equivalent position with contract monitoring and oversight responsibilities; and/or I have interacted with contractor personnel and contracting officers to resolve conflicts or obstacles encountered on a telecommunications contract, while staying within the scope of the Statement of Work (SOW) and without exceeding deadlines or budget. I have assisted with the development of contract documents; and/or I have worked with others to perform contract oversight responsibilities for the procurement/renewal of established systems/services; and/or I have served as point of contact to resolve problems associated with services acquired. None of the above. 7 The Telecommunication Specialist must apply his/her knowledge of theory and principles of electronics to duties involved in the management, installation, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and communication equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed field-level installations of electronics or telecommunications equipment; and/or I have performed diagnostics, troubleshooting, and routine preventative maintenance on electronics or telecommunications systems; and/or I have served as the technical expert for telecommunications systems and was responsible for upgrading the system and ensuring uninterrupted service; and/or I have utilized and maintained various telecommunications systems at the field-level. I have researched, reviewed, and successfully implemented new theories, concepts, and developments; and/or I have developed plans for implementation of new or far-reaching telecommunication programs/systems; and/or I have reviewed and approved methods for enhancing efficiency of telecommunication systems used in security systems through application of evolving technology. I have taught an electronics/communications systems course to students above the high school level (i.e., college/technical/military); and/or I have provided hands-on instruction to technical experts for installation and maintenance of complex electronics/communications systems and equipment; and/or I have developed and presented specialized formal training on communications and electronic systems to technical peers. None of the above. 8 The Telecommunication Specialist will work with many vendors in the telecommunication field in procuring and maintaining services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught a course to students above the high school level (i.e., college/technical/military) related to telecommunications industry standards or regulations; and/or I have written an article for a national, regional or local publication (i.e., magazine or technical journal) related to telecommunications regulations, laws, and standards; and/or I have developed and presented specialized formal training on telecommunications regulations, laws, and standards to a group of peers or other technical experts; and/or I have participated as a facilitator in seminars/conferences involving specific telecommunication standards issues I have planned an implementation schedule for higher-level approval utilizing various telecommunications laws and regulations as points of reference; and/or I have prepared documents to procure telecommunications services such as CATV (Cable Television) for commercial use, the installation of voice and data circuits and applications for RF (Radio Frequencies)in compliance with governing laws and regulations; and/or I have installed and maintained telecommunication systems in accordance with the laws and regulations governing telecommunication systems; and/or I have served as a point of contact for initiating voice services with local and national telephone carriers. I have researched National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) and National Electric Code (NEC) to develop an implementation plan for the installation of telecommunications systems and equipment; and/or I have reviewed and evaluated proposals from engineers, managers, and technicians for communications and electronic systems and analyzed and compared them for technical adequacy and suitability in a correctional environment; and/or I have identified changing trends regarding telecommunication laws and standards to resolve problems and avoid adverse impact to the institution/organization; and/or I have monitored Federal Register and Code of Federal Regulations for policy guidance and solicited information from other agencies to ensure conformity to rules, regulations, and industry trends. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).