Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 2 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above 3 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures Directives Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 4 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed and implemented: Answer to this question is required Security Clearance Adjudication Facility / Information Access Force Protection High-threat Security Guard Force Operations Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Counter Intelligence Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Training None of the above 5 Select the activities you have performed in analyzing information and drawing conclusions according to standard rules, guidelines or criteria: Answer to this question is required Analyzed incoming correspondence to determine level of importance or priority in relation to programs, policies, guidelines or standard operating procedures. Analyzed reports or other document to determine relevance to programs, policies, guidelines or standard operating procedures. Analyzed reports or other documents to identify implications for action in relation to programs, policies, guidelines or standard operating procedures. Analyzed reports or other documents to identify whether content is consistent with or in compliance with laws, rules, regulation or guidelines. None of that above. 6 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.