Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have a Doctor of Medicine OR Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine OR equivalent from a school in the United States (U.S.) or Canada accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association, Association of American Medical Colleges, Liaison Committee on Medical Education, Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. I have completed a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the U.S. that is demonstrated by a permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. I have a fifth pathway certificate and I completed premedical education in the U.S. and graduate education in a foreign country. I have completed a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the U.S. that is demonstrated by successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, I had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. Graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada, as described in the announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements, as described in the announcement, to qualify for this position. Select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-15 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have 5 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training as described in the Requirements section of the announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 5 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.