Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-13 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service. For this position, specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Demonstrated expertise in interpreting and implementing on federal or non-federal accounting policies, OMB guidance, FASAB or FASB standards, and agency or company specific procedures to ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements. 2. &nbsp;Advanced experience monitoring and reconciling complex appropriations, multi year funds, and financial statement line items, including analyzing variance, evaluating anomalies. 3. Served as a liaison and authoritative representative for the agency when coordinating with internal stakeholders, external federal entities, auditors, and private sector partners, ensuring alignment on financial data, resolving discrepancies, and promoting consistency in government wide reporting. 4. Expertise in investigating, diagnosing, and resolving abnormal balances, discrepancies, and accounting irregularities by applying in depth knowledge of the Standard General Ledger (SGL), internal controls, and cross system reconciliation processes to restore accuracy and integrity of financial records. 5. Expertise in applying accounting policies to record complex transactions and preparing financial statements and disclosures.&nbsp; 6. Demonstrated proficiency in Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Words for data management, analysis and professional documentation.&nbsp; 7. Functioned as a subject matter expert on enterprise financial management systems, accounting standards, and financial reporting requirements, providing authoritative guidance, leading system enhancements. 8. &nbsp;Led the review, revision, and modernization of financial reporting procedures, standard operating procedures, and internal accounting controls to incorporate new legislative requirements, updated Treasury/OMB directives, audit recommendations, and best practices in financial management. 9. &nbsp;Responded to internal and external inquiries&mdash;including from auditors, leadership, oversight bodies, and components by preparing clear, concise, and technically accurate written and oral communications, ensuring timely delivery of complex financial information and well supported explanations for decision makers. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-14 GS-14 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service. For this position, specialized experience is defined as follows:&nbsp; 1. Demonstrated expertise in interpreting, developing, implementing, and advising on complex federal or non-federal accounting policies and procedures, including applying Treasury, OMB, GAO, and FASAB or FASB guidance to ensure full compliance with financial management statutes, regulatory requirements, and agency wide internal controls. 2. Extensive experience collaborating with a wide range of internal and external stakeholders including components, budget officers, auditors, and financial system owners to communicate, interpret, and implement changes in accounting policies, ensuring consistent application and effective integration across federal financial operations. 3. Served as a technical authority providing subject matter expertise to research, analyze, and record highly complex accounting transactions, including multi year appropriations, no year funds, interagency transactions, capitalized assets, and other transactions.&nbsp; 4. Oversaw and performed high level analysis of key appropriated funds, trust funds, and financial statement line items, identifying systemic abnormalities, conducting root cause reviews, &nbsp;and ensuring the reliability and auditability of fund activity and general ledger balances. 5. Recognized expert in interpreting financial accounting and reporting requirements, including OMB A 136, Treasury CARS/GTAS reporting, and FASAB or FASB standards; collaborated with external partners such as Treasury, OIG, OMB, and other federal entities to resolve reporting discrepancies and ensure government wide reporting accuracy. 6. Demonstrated proficiency in Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Words for data management, analysis and professional documentation.&nbsp; 7. Functioned as a senior subject matter expert on financial management systems, accounting modules, and enterprise reporting guidelines, providing authoritative guidance on system configuration, internal controls, Standard General Ledger posting logic, and financial statement generation, including recommending system enhancements to improve audit readiness and efficiency. 8. Conducted high level evaluations of compliance with federal laws, regulations, internal controls, and financial reporting standards, assessing operational efficiency, identifying process deficiencies, and recommending corrective actions in alignment with A 123, and audit findings. 9. Led efforts to modernize, revise, and improve financial reporting processes and documentation, including updating standard operating procedures, implementing new reporting methodologies, improving data quality controls, and ensuring alignment with updated Treasury, OMB, and FASAB or FASB requirements. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Choose a method of consideration- Please select one choice from the following: Answer to this question is required (MP-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. Please consider me through the merit promotion process in which I will compete with all status applicants. (DEU-only) I am not a Federal employee. Please consider me only through the Delegated Examining process in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. NOTE: This process only allows consideration of the top ranked candidates, and veteran's preference rules apply. If selected through this process, you may have to serve another probationary period and your tenure group may be affected. (MP and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. (NC-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action). I am eligible for noncompetitive consideration because I am currently holding or have held a permanent grade that is equal to or above the full performance level/promotion potential of the position being advertised OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. (NC and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, that is eligible for noncompetitive consideration as described above OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).