Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-7 Industry Economist position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: 1 or more years of post-graduate education Overall graduate GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the undergraduate, graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. Membership in a national scholastic honor society SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods; identifying, collecting and validating relevant data; and interpreting competing solutions; 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research for audiences with varying levels of experience; 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memoranda, orders, research papers, or similar documents. A combination of both education and specialized experience. None of the above. Grade: 09 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-9 Industry Economist position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods; identifying, collecting and validating relevant data; and interpreting competing solutions.; 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research for audiences with varying levels of experience; 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memoranda, orders, research papers, or similar documents; 4. Drafting publicly facing technical writings such as articles, reports, and documentation. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-11 Industry Economist by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: Master's or equivalent graduate degree. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods; identifying, collecting and validating relevant data; and interpreting competing solutions; 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research for audiences with varying levels of experience; 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memoranda, orders, research papers, or similar documents; 4. Contributing to publicly facing technical writings such as articles, reports and documentation; 5. Evaluating and tracking regulatory policy implications through industry data. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Choose a method of consideration- Please select one choice from the following: Answer to this question is required (MP-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. Please consider me through the merit promotion process in which I will compete with all status applicants. (DEU-only) I am not a Federal employee. Please consider me only through the Delegated Examining process in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. NOTE: This process only allows consideration of the top ranked candidates, and veteran's preference rules apply. If selected through this process, you may have to serve another probationary period and your tenure group may be affected. (MP and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. (NC-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action). I am eligible for noncompetitive consideration because I am currently holding or have held a permanent grade that is equal to or above the full performance level/promotion potential of the position being advertised OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. (NC and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, that is eligible for noncompetitive consideration as described above OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. 7 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Economist positions in the Federal government. Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4 year course of study leading to a degree in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. I have a combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in economics as described in the response above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).