Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience preparing decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by mid and senior level officials? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with preparing decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by senior level officials. I have assisted in preparing decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by senior level officials. I have prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by senior level officials under close supervision. I have independently prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by senior level officials. I am considered an expert in preparing decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation regarding the provision of services and benefits to the foreign diplomatic community for approval by senior level officials. 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 6 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have assisted in administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders under close supervision. I have independently administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I am considered an expert in training and developing new or junior employees. I have trained others in this activity and/or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 7 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 8 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 9 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your experience establishing and maintaining liaison with officials throughout the Intelligence Community (IC)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task. I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in representing a division or organization at meetings, conferences, and events. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.