Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate which of the tasks below you have performed routinely on the job without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required In depth experience in reading and understanding mechanical drawings, plans and specifications to diagnose the cause of malfunctions, make repairs and test results at an astronomical observatory. Experience in reading and understanding mechanical drawings, plans and specifications to diagnose the cause of malfunctions, make repairs and test results in an industrial environment. Inspecting and operating mechanical systems to assure proper operation of the complete system or equipment, identify any deficiencies and repair, if needed, to component level. Operating mechanical systems to assure proper operation of the complete system or equipment and repair None of the above 2 Which of the following statements best describe your experience evaluating, planning, and purchasing tools and materials for both specific jobs and to maintain general stock in a industrial mechanical shop? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have assisted with or performed this task under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have performed this task as a supervisor or shop manager. I have never performed this task. 3 Please indicate which of the tasks below you have performed routinely on the job without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Checking work orders to verify that all necessary repairs and modifications have been performed Ensuring that needed plans, blueprints, materials, and tools are available so that instrumentation and equipment repair work can be accomplished correctly Using manuals or instructions to plan sequence of inspection during layout, fabrication, installation, and testing of components of equipment. Analyzing test results to locate improperly functioning parts for repair or replacement None of the above 4 Which statement best describes your experience resolving complex issues, by explaining, advocating and/or coordinating with applicable parties at various levels, evaluating alternatives, developing a consensus opinion and presenting and persuading upper management or external customers on the resolution, position or recommendation? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience serving as lead on these types of assignments on numerous occasions by independently performing all of these tasks with little guidance or direction from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have some experience independently performing most of these tasks and have served as lead on one or more occasion under limited direction from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have limited experience in this area by participating in these tasks by performing one or more aspects of these tasks under close supervision from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have not had education, training, or related experience in performing these tasks. 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others Answer to this question is required I do not have prior experience of this nature. I have worked on a team or group with my peers, each designated with a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team or group with individuals from different divisions, organizations, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment I have worked with a team or group in the safety and health industry on many occasions to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, information, resources, and responsibility I have led a team or group to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, information, resources, and responsibility. 6 Identify your experience in independently overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and managing day-to-day fleet operations. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience managing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes at an astronomical observatory. I have experience managing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes in industry. I have experience assisting a fleet manager overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes at an astronomical observatory. I have experience assisting a fleet manager overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes in industry. No experience 7 Identify your highest level of experience with a vehicle fleet preventative maintenance program. Answer to this question is required I have developed and implemented a preventative maintenance program for a diverse 4WD transportation vehicle fleet. I have used computerized preventative maintenance scheduling programs to manage maintenance for a 4WD transportation vehicle fleet. I have implemented and/or followed a fleet’s preventative maintenance plan that was developed by others. I have performed preventative maintenance checks and service on equipment and vehicles as directed by a supervisor. No experience 8 Which of the following statements best describe your experience evaluating, planning, and budgeting expenditures for a vehicle fleet? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have assisted with or performed this task under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have performed this task as a supervisor or shop manager. . I have never performed this task. 9 Have you estimated labor and material resources and costs for a transportation vehicle repair as a job responsibility? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following statements best describe your experience performing precision mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems. Answer to this question is required I routinely perform precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications at an astronomical observatory or other research facility. I have performed precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications at an astronomical observatory or other research facility. I have been trained in performing precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications. I have not performed precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications. 11 Describe your experience reading and interpreting mechanical drawings, specifications, or technical manuals&nbsp; Answer to this question is required No experience I have used mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals with extensive assistance from a supervisor or technical expert. I have an intermediate level of skill using mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals to understand the functions of parts, equipment, or systems. I have routinely used mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals on the job in order to understand the functions of parts, equipment, or system, to plan and lay out work, and to aid in diagnosing malfunctions or making repairs. 12 Which reference materials have you read and interpreted to maintain and repair precision complex machinery and instruments? Answer to this question is required Schematics Technical Drawings OEM Manufacturers Service Manuals Functional Flow Repair Diagrams Mechanical System Repair Manuals Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) None of the Above 13 Which of the following describes your experience as an Engineering Technician (Mechanical)? Answer to this question is required Worked as a engineering technician in an Astronomical Observatory. Worked as a engineering technician in an industrial environment. Worked as a engineering technician in a small business environment. Worked as a engineering technician as an independent contractor. I have education as an engineering technician, but have never worked in industry. None of the above 14 What is your experience in modifying existing parts, instruments and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. I have some experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. I have no experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. 15 What is your experience operating heavy lifting equipment such as overhead cranes, hoists and gantry cranes? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience operating overhead cranes, hoists and gantry cranes as a regular part of my position. I have experience operating overhead cranes, hoists and gantry cranes as a regular part of my position. I have experience operating overhead cranes and hoists. I have experience operating hoists and gantry cranes. I have been trained to use lifting equipment. I have no experience operating lifting equipment. 16 What is your experience operating a forklift truck? Answer to this question is required I have experience operating a telescoping forklift truck I have experience operating a forklift truck I have no experience operating a forklift truck 17 Do you have a valid CDL License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Please indicate which of the tasks below you have performed routinely on the job without more than normal supervision. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Diagnosing the cause of malfunctions and making repairs to heavy mobile equipment and vehicles which have mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and electric systems, controls, or features not commonly found on automobiles and ordinary transport trucks. Inspecting components to assure proper operation of the complete system, vehicle, or equipment Inspecting repairs, modifications, and/or rebuild work in process to ensure the equipment or vehicle is being repaired, modified, and/or rebuilt in accordance with correct methods Inspecting equipment or vehicles after repairs are completed to ensure that safety and operational requirements are met Performing maintenance or repairs on weight handling equipment such as mobile cranes, crane tracks, or lift bridge hoists Troubleshooting causes of malfunctions on weight handling equipment Checking work orders to verify that all necessary repairs and modifications have been performed Ensuring that needed plans, blueprints, materials and tools are available so that heavy mobile equipment/weight handling equipment repair work can be accomplished correctly Completing inspection reports to certify that equipment, components, and workmanship meet prescribed standards Using manuals or instructions to plan sequence of inspection during layout, fabrication, installation, and testing of components of heavy mobile equipment Overseeing the use of specialized tools and test equipment to ensure they are being used properly Performing operational tests using compression gauges, calipers, feeler gauges, micrometers, voltage testers, amp meters, and tachometers, to check components and overall equipment operation and performance Assuring that personal protective equipment is worn as required and used properly Using dynamometers to analyze malfunctions and determine the extent of repairs necessary Using common hand tools and equipment (e.g. impact wrenches, torque wrenches, pullers and presses) to complete repairs and overhauls on heavy mobile equipment and/or weight handling equipment Analyzing test results to locate improperly functioning parts for repair or replacement Preparing shop repair orders to specify corrective action and/or repairs needed on heavy mobile equipment 19 Identify your experience in independently troubleshooting heavy mobile or automotive equipment malfunctions or performance issues (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in obtaining and interpreting information from electronic diagnostic systems (e.g., J-Pro, Mack Premium Tech tool, Cummins Insite, Bosch, Nexiq, or Modis) such as historical, pending and active fault codes and live streamed data to diagnose and troubleshoot malfunctions on heavy mobile and transportation equipment and related subsystems I have experience in applying advanced diagnostic techniques, and theory to identify deficiencies in components of high pressure and extra-high pressure hydraulic systems such as intensifiers and pressure pumps I have used electronic or computerized diagnostic tools to identify and correct malfunctions in electrical and other essential systems of equipment or vehicles. I have used volt, ohm, and multi meters to locate electrical malfunctions in components and diagnose and repair the problem I have used pressure testing devices to locate heating and cooling component failures to make the appropriate repairs. I have used a variety of measurement tools to accurately mark and cut materials for part fabrication and repair I have utilized a digital caliper to precisely measure internal and external distances to repair heavy equipment components I have used an RPM meter to measure revolutions of heavy equipment components I have used pressure measuring devices to measure fuel and hydraulic fluids to determine leaks and/or component failure No experience View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.