Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, must communicate with staff, managers, regional and central office administrators, and outside officials in providing guidance, implementing/modifying systems, resolving issues, planning and coordinating projects, and giving presentations at meetings.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered complex financial questions from field or regional staff; and/or I have communicated with others on workgroups or as part of a Community Relations Board (CRB) program; and/or I have developed and facilitated presentations to outside agencies and officials related to financial stability; and/or I have maintained relationships with outside entities which resulted in a major cost savings to the agency/organization; and/or I have successfully finished a project addressing technical financial issues after alleviating a significant negative impact which prevented the project’s completion. I have briefed upper management regarding critical and/or highly sensitive issues such as, complex and/or technical Trust Fund Network issues, sensitive investigative data related to inmate communications and/or finances, or significant incidents relating to the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and the public; and/or I have represented an agency/organization, making formal presentations to representatives of state prisons, public groups, and/or other divisions on major topics or issues affecting the agency/organization and/or the public; and/or I have communicated with others as a nationally recognized authority on commissary, telephone, and limited electronic messaging systems for inmates, as well as technical and financial policies, practices and techniques. I have given briefings to upper management regarding Trust Fund or complex finance matters; and/or I have led a workgroup in addressing or resolving a critical topic or issue which impacted the agency/organization; and/or I have interacted with accounting staff or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firm staff on financial statement issues; and/or I have presented training for an agency/organization; and/or I have worked with other department heads to resolve issues that had a significant impact on operations; and/or I have presented information about an agency/organization at a local meeting. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, prepares a wide variety of documents including Executive Staff papers, memorandums, policies, project proposals, program evaluations, strategic plans, performance evaluations and reports on branch problems and new programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed national policy which affected the entire agency/organization; and/or I have prepared written responses/articles relating to the agency/organization and the community concerning Trust Fund applications/systems; and/or I have prepared short and long-range plans, policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines for Trust Fund Operations; and/or I have prepared speeches and/or talking points for the head of an agency/organization; and/or I have written detailed responses to the Department of Justice (DOJ), congressional, and/or White House inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have prepared written statements for the agency/organization which were presented to the news media and/or other public sources. I have written technical financial correspondence regarding program activity for an agency; and/or I have prepared correspondence to regional and institution staff on finance or system issues; and/or I have prepared reports on staff assist visits or documented technical financial problems; and/or I have written financial Standard Operating Procedures for use by all facilities in the Bureau of Prisons (BOP); and/or I have developed financial procedural documentation for audit and investigative requirements; and/or I have wrote contingency plans, system security plans, risk analysis documentation for local area network and for approval by the Department of Justice (DOJ). I have responded to financial inquiries from upper management officials; and/or I have prepared financial response to congressional for Assistant Director or Director’s signature; and/or I have written financial Executive Staff papers; and/or I have prepared narratives to justify branch budget submissions; and/or I have developed summaries of branch financial information; and/or I have prepared written financial project proposals for upper management. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, gathers information regarding a project, program, or financial activity, analyzes the information and makes recommendations for policy changes, new programs and strategic plans.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a research project which involved financial data collection and presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have served on a financial audit team; and/or I have used financial systems to retrieve financial data and prepare reports and analysis; and/or I have reviewed current financial policy or procedures in response to complaints/problems. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented a new program and/or made changes which significantly improved an existing program; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems regarding preparation and maintenance of cumbersome documentation requirements, and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have implemented new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed operations of an agency/organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained. I have collected information and made recommendations to increase security; and/or I have gathered financial data and proposed changes in evaluating agency practices that impacted specific programs; and/or I have participated on a financial issues task force which analyzed problems and proposed solutions; and/or I have researched financial accounting problem or Trust Fund Operations problem and proposed corrective action. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, participates in the decisions concerning long-range planning and implementation of major hardware and software systems for Trust Fund Operations.&nbsp;He/she gathers and analyzes financial data from automated financial systems.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have changed variables on existing programs to produce special reports; and/or I have used Financial Management Systems to report budget data in another format; and/or I have operated and maintained basic fund control systems; and/or I have used Financial Management System modules to research financial data for a budget issue; and/or I have provided assistance to field personnel in resolving problems with the financial operating system. I have developed programs for automated budget systems; and/or I have developed spreadsheets using automated platforms to track positions; and/or I have developed and maintained various fund tracking and control systems used by program managers to track program funds in the agency; and/or I have developed reports via the agency’s automated Financial Management System for use by Regional or field budget staff and Program Managers; and/or I have created databases for tracking data such as allotments and project numbers; and/or I have used Department of Justice (DOJ) financial management accounting and budget modules to analyze financial data; and/or I have reconfigured financial data at the request of management for a specific location. I have designed, directed and/or provided oversight for the development of Trust Fund Network or similar integrated systems and/or applications; and/or I have developed and/or directed long-range plans for Bureau-wide implementation of newly developed systems/applications and/or major hardware/software replacement/modification; and/or I have analyzed complex/technical Financial Management Systems’ data and/or highly sensitive inmate-related data and made decisions regarding integration and/or data-sharing with other law enforcement agencies. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, must manage, direct, and oversee the agency&rsquo;s Trust Fund Operations.&nbsp;He/she dictates national policy, procedures and guidelines for Trust Fund Operations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed and/or provided oversight/guidance for Trust Fund Operations within Central Office and/or Bureau-wide; and/or I have implemented national policy for Trust Fund Operations (i.e., Commissary, Inmate Telephone System (ITS/TRUFONE), Inmate Deposit Fund, Warehouse, Laundry); and/or I have directed the implementation and development of documentation for field-level operational procedures and requirements; and/or I have directed and provided oversight for a National Trust Fund Training for institution department heads and assistant department heads; and/or I have directed the development of Trust Fund audit guidelines for all levels of the operation. I have recommended approval of a national policy for Trust Fund Operations (i.e., Commissary, Inmate Telephone System (ITS/TRUFONE), Inmate Deposit Fund, Warehouse, Laundry); and/or I have approved an official response to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) regarding function of Trust Fund within the agency; and/or I have approved annual budget requests for Trust Fund Branch Operations; and/or I have formed a task force to develop new policies, systems and procedures for Trust Fund Operations; and/or I have addressed technical questions from agency executives regarding the Trust Fund Operations. I have revised national policy for Trust Fund Operations (Commissary, Inmate Telephone System (ITS/TRUFONE), Inmate Deposit Fund, Warehouse, Laundry); and/or I have assisted with official responses to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) regarding functions of Trust Fund within the agency; and/or I have approved annual budget requests for Trust Fund Operations areas; and/or I have served as chairperson of a task force to develop new policies, systems and procedures for Trust Fund Operations; and/or I have addressed technical questions from outside entities regarding Trust Fund Operations. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Trust Fund Branch, must interact with various staff, consultants, co-workers, supervisors, managers, and executives. He/she must be able to effectively supervise branch staff, as well as contract personnel. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have counseled subordinate supervisory employees on work performance, flow, and accomplishments; and/or I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have developed new job training programs that increased the job knowledge of subordinate staff and trainees, improved operations or increased efficiency; and/or I have developed and implemented new employee reward structures, recognition practices or feedback systems; and/or I have decentralized responsibilities giving staff an opportunity for a meaningful role in accomplishing organizational objectives; and/or I have within existing resource limitations, developed broad scale opportunities for subordinates to develop skills needed for career advancement. I have counseled employees on work performance, flow, and accomplishments; and/or I have delegated work responsibilities and developed staff for a meaningful role in accomplishing organizational objectives through training, rewards and opportunities while holding them accountable for work completion and performance; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP). I have directed/supervised subordinate management employees, providing broad/general guidance, regarding the organization’s mission, program objectives, and project requirements; and/or I have reorganized subordinate duties and/or restructured the organization to enhance operations and increase efficiency and effectiveness of the program; and/or I have developed management subordinates for increased responsibility by making assignments which increased the subordinate’s exposure to executive staff, provided public speaking opportunities, and which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action and established goals for management employees to enhance their efficiency and effectiveness through formal training. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).