Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of library collections maintenance practices and procedures.** Applied knowledge of proper library collection maintenance processes and procedures to safely store materials. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) arranged collections in order, 2) sorted collections by classification, 3) shelved collections in appropriate stack location, 4) shifted collection to create space in stack areas, 5) shelf-read collections to ensure accuracy, 6) identified and removed potentially mislabeled and miscatologed items, and, 7) removed materials that require rebinding, relabeling, or repair. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of library collection maintanence processes and procedures by performing ALL of the above tasks in a library setting Applied knowledge of library collection maintanence processes and procedures by performing FIVE of the above tasks in a library setting. Applied knowledge of library collection maintanence processes and procedures by performing FOUR of the above tasks in a library setting. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to use computerized databases and search tools.** Used computerized search tools, databases and systems to aid in retrieval of collections. Answer to this question is required Independently used an Integrated Library system or other system(s) to receive requests for library collections in order to retrieve item(s) from library stack locations. Independently used an Integrated Library system or other system(s) to retrieve requested item(s). Independently used a system(s) to retrieve requested item(s). None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of proper library collection retrieval processes and procedures. Applied knowledge of proper library collection retrieval processes and procedures to safely handle materials. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) received retrieval request through online database, 2) retrieved collection from designated stack location, 3) identified accuracy of item pulled and input appropriate response into online database ensuring completeness of processed materials, and 4) inspected materials for damage. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of library collection retrieval processes and procedures by performing ALL of the above tasks in a library setting. Applied knowledge of library collection retrieval processes and procedures by performing THREE of the above tasks in a library setting. Applied knowledge of library collection retrieval processes and procedures by performing TWO of the above tasks in a library or academic setting. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan work and meet deadlines. Planned and carried out retrieval, collections maintenance, and preservation tasks in accordance with deadlines set by supervisor(s). Answer to this question is required Independently planned workflow selected and interpreted appropriate procedures and met quality and timeliness objectives to carry out retrieval, collections maintenance, and preservation tasks. With minimum supervision, planned workflow, interpreted appropriate procedures, met quality and timeliness objectives, to carry out retrieval, collections maintenance, and preservation tasks. With minimum supervision, interpreted appropriate procedures and met quality and timeliness objectives to carry out retrieval, collections maintenance, and preservation tasks. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).