Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 14 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have experience leading work teams which included assigning work, setting employee priorities, evaluating employee performance, rewarding employees, resolving employee complaints, and effecting disciplinary actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following describes your experience in managing or leading employees? Answer to this question is required I have some experience managing/leading employees that includes assigning and monitoring the work of others, establishing priorities, and providing guidance on complex issues. I have extensive experience managing/leading multiple employees to include monitoring work of others, establishing priorities, providing guidance on complex issues, providing training on new procedures and policy, promoting team building and writing performance awards. I have received management/leadership training but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience reading, interpreting and analyzing security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training reading, interpreting and analyzing security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons. I have completed formal education or training in reading, interpreting and analyzing security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience reading, interpreting and analyzing security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have independently read, interpreted and analyzed security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have routinely read, interpreted and analyzed security drawings and specifications for anti-ram physical security barriers, blast mitigation and CBRN mitigation for major National Icons as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or have been consulted by others as an expert in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best demonstrates your level of experience in physical security? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in this area. I have received some training but have no significant direct experience in this area. I have performed journey-level specialist work in this area on a substantially full-time basis. I have served as a team leader over this function. I have served as a first-level supervisor over this function. I have served in a security organization as a second-level supervisor or manager over this function. I have served as a second-level supervisor or manager over an organization which was not specifically or exclusively a security organization but which included this function. 6 Do you have experience with identifying trends and patterns of accident/injuries and assisted in evaluating an agency&rsquo;s health and safety programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience participating in the coordination of outreach events to promote the agency safety and health program goals, objectives, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience reviewing various police services, activities and determining appropriate standards in law enforcement, security and communication for a major organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience in developing project plans for security technical professionals for the use of security equipment in the protection of government facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.