Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 Case Management Coordinators must possess the ability to develop and facilitate technical training courses on various case management procedures and processes. They are responsible for conducting meetings with case managers and unit support staff in order to present the position of the institution administration regarding BOP policy and institution case management procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have developed and provided training on new case management processes or procedures. I have instructed a class using an established curriculum or lesson plan; and/or I have prepared and presented a speech during Institutional Familiarization, Annual refresher Training or institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. I have participated on a work group which included members of the upper management/executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given formal presentations at job fairs, community events, national conferences, vendor fairs. I have testified in court on behalf of the institution; and/or I have chaired a meeting and successfully presented or provided training to case managers or unit support staff; and/or I have successfully resolved differences of opinions among participants during meetings. I have provided advice to Unit Management staff and interacted with other federal, state or local agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a negotiator with labor union; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. None of the above. 4.2 Case Management Coordinators must possess the ability to analyze information and make recommendations in regard to policy and programs that effect other departments. They are responsible for developing and formulating policies, plans and/or programs to meet correctional program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made a recommendation to the unit manager which results in an internal change in the unit's policy or procedure; and/or I have made a recommendation on policy change or procedure of another department that is implemented by that department; and/or I have made recommendations for the development of corrective action plans. I have developed corrective action to address a deviation from policy that is implemented at the institution level; and/or I have established corrective action plans to correct existing deficiencies; and/or I have provided input that is adopted or included in national policy, Institutional Supplement, Strategic Plan, or local policy. I have formulated plan to ensure quality control of all official correspondence prepared by correctional programs staff for Warden's signature; and/or as assigned by Warden, as a collateral duty, I have analyzed, developed, and formulated policy for program outside of area of expertise; and/or I have led program review or equivalent review in correctional treatment. None of the above. 4.3 Case Management Coordinators must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities for all case management functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained individual workload while routinely assigned as acting Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted or changed priorities to complete last minute or emergency assignments; and/or I have maintained individual work load while assigned extra duties such as a coordinator of a program (Unit pre-release, Admission and Orientation, a committee, etc.). I have scheduled regular meetings with staff in order to keep them abreast of new/revised policies and discuss already existing policies; and/or I have provided training for staff in new/revised areas in policies; and/or I have served as resource for institution administrative and management staff; and/or on a rotating basis, I have served as acting Associate Warden. I have initiated the timely processing of referrals, transfer requests, etc.; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines; and/or I have maintained individual workload while only occasionally assigned as acting Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator. None of the above. 4.4 Case Management Coordinators supervise and manage the employees involved with case/unit/inmate systems management. They are responsible for the supervision and development of Records Supervisor, Case Managers, Legal Instruments Examiners, Inmate Systems Officers and clerical staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge. I have completed performance evaluations; and/or I have adjusted staff duties and assignments; and/or I have directed the work of subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have recommended staff for awards; and/or I have counseled employees on their performance. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. 4.5 Case Management Coordinators&nbsp;must be able to interpret written materials and communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner in order respond to external correspondence received, develop Institution Supplements to agency policy, prepare case reports and lesson plans for training others. They are also responsible for reviewing work prepared by others and must possess the ability to proofread and correct grammatical errors to correspondence prior to forwarding for the Warden&rsquo;s signature.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently prepared technical reports that were used by upper management; and/or I have prepared complex executive level correspondence such as program review responses, operational reviews, strategic plans, or congressional responses; and/or I am routinely sought out by others to review/edit written correspondence prior to forwarding to supervisor; and/or I have reviewed correspondence for policy compliance and made corrections prior to the Warden’s signatures. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by an agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigations, operational review findings; and/or I have prepared judicial letters or congressional responses which required minor corrections; and/or I have prepared progress reports and case summaries which contained appropriate conclusions and recommendations. None of the above. 4.6 Case Management Coordinators oversee the case management program areas to ensure that agency personnel are following established guidelines and regulations. They are responsible for developing institution supplements and internal procedures for case management functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered all aspects of the CIMs Program at the institution level; and/or I have provided direction, technical expertise and review of the implementation to ensure proper application of policy; and/or I have coordinated/monitored institution Witness Security cases; and/or I have monitored certification of staff in central inmate monitoring procedures. I have developed a case management checklist or procedure that was subsequently implemented Region-wide; and/or I have provided case management policy interpretation to non-agency personnel; and/or I have assisted with a case management specialized project in a regional setting. I have participated in an Operational Review of Case Management areas; and/or I have assisted in preparing a streamlined procedure for a case management function; and/or I have provided routine information/policy interpretation of case management policies to non unit management staff; and/or I have monitored and administered oversight of a specialized case management program for a unit; and/or I have assisted in updating an institution supplement. I have provided detailed training to staff regarding the implementation of a new program; and/or I have monitored and administered oversight of a specialized case management program for the institution (i.e., CIM Program, Victim Witness Notification Program, Pre-arrival screening). None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).