Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have a degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a combination of education and experience that includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by at least one of the following: 1.) a degree in architectural engineering and/or 2.) l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of such experience is required. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Developed design calculations Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop a design Modified designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations Provided design review comments Performed a site inspection to confirm construction complies with construction documents Performed site inspections to confirm existing building conditions match existing record drawings. None of the above 2 Which computer-aided drafting (CAD) software have you used to develop designs? Answer to this question is required AutoCAD MicroStation (2D) Building Information Modeling (BIM) systems (e.g., Revit) None of the above 3 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 4 Select the responses that describe your experience interacting with persons of varied backgrounds, cultures, or opinions to accomplish work goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have accomplished goals working with people from diverse backgrounds and cultures. I have accomplished goals working with persons from a similar culture but of a different race, gender, or ethnicity from my own. I have accomplished goals working with persons with socio-economic statuses different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues and/or clients with a native language different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues or clients who held different views from my own on important subjects or issues. I have accomplished goals working with persons who held a hostile or antagonistic attitude toward me. None of the above. 5 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 6 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments None of the above 7 Select the elements of a project plan that you have developed. Answer to this question is required Scope of work Schedule of project activities Milestones and deadlines Project budgets Required resources Quality standards Safety plan None of the above 8 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 9 What methods have you used to monitor the progress of work performed on a project? Answer to this question is required Established recurring project update meetings Made unscheduled, in-person appearances to ask for project updates Developed status reports on a regularly scheduled interim Provided periodic updates to project members` supervisors None of the above 10 Select the issues that you have resolved when managing projects. Answer to this question is required Changes to project scope Need for additional funds when budget was exhausted Negative overall project performance evaluation Unfeasible client expectations for project requirements or outcomes None of the above 11 Please explain the situation and your resolution to the previous question regarding the issues that you have resolved when managing projects. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I wrote summaries of oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, email) for documentation purposes. I completed a class or training on technical writing techniques. I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products. None of the above. 13 Which elements of writing have you revised in a document written by others? Answer to this question is required Grammar Clarity in wording Technical accuracy Sentence structure Organization of ideas None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.