Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. Program Statement: AHHA gives the next generation of archivists and knowledge workers invaluable opportunities to analyze, organize, and interpret collections or programs that help share the story of the American experience. Internships and projects will heighten visibility for Library resources that represent the rich heritage of the United States. AHHA interns MUST be available to report onsite for the entire duration of the internship. 3 Name of your current or most recent undergraduate or graduate institution. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 80 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Anticipated graduation date, or date of graduation if recent graduate. Applicants must be a currently enrolled undergraduate junior, senior, masters or Ph.D. candidate or have graduated between December 1, 2025 &ndash; August 31, 2026. Answer to this question is required. Date should be input as mm/yyyy if possible. Answer to this question is required 5 Title of your program of study/concentration. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Please select your First Choice for placement from among the following 5 onsite projects . See the full project descriptions, including knowledge and skills required, here: https://www.loc.gov/item/internships/archives-history-and-heritage-advanced-internship-program. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required # 01 Engaging Youth and Families Onsite at the Library of Congress # 02 Copyright Records Management Inventory # 03 Providing Public Access to American History within the Holdings of the Manuscript Division # 04 American History in the Spanish Foreign Copying Program Records # 05 Researching and Curating American Federal Legislative History Materials 7 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected project. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please select your Second Choice for placement from among the following 5 onsite projects . See the full descriptions, including knowledge and skills required, here: https://www.loc.gov/item/internships/archives-history-and-heritage-advanced-internship-program. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required # 01 Engaging Youth and Families Onsite at the Library of Congress # 02 Copyright Records Management Inventory # 03 Providing Public Access to American History within the Holdings of the Manuscript Division # 04 American History in the Spanish Foreign Copying Program Records # 05 Researching and Curating American Federal Legislative History Materials 9 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected project. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 In the box below, please describe how the Archives, History and Heritage Advanced Internship Program relates to your overall career goals and/or how you would benefit from working on your first and second choice projects. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 3500 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 In the box below, please tell us about your interest in and/or experience with analyzing, organizing, and/or interpreting archival and/or heritage collections, resources and/or programs. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 3500 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Name, title, email address, and telephone number of a professor with knowledge of your qualifications, a supervisor in your current or former job OR a faculty member familiar with your work. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Name, title, email address, and telephone number of a professor with knowledge of your qualifications, a supervisor in your current or former job OR a faculty member familiar with your work. Answer to this question is required. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you FIRST learn about the Archives, History and Heritage Advanced (AHHA) Program? Answer to this question is required Archives Gig Career fair or career event College or university faculty College or university career center Handshake/Symplicity Library of Congress social media (e.g. Instagram, Facebook, etc.) Library of Congress website (loc.gov) Library of Congress blog Library of Congress employee referral Library of Congress alumni referral Library School Department announcement LinkedIn LIR alumnus Live Information Session USAJOBS.gov University Career Center announcement Professor Search engine Other (please specify) 15 If you learned about AHHA from another source, please specify below: Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 Please share any career or internship platforms you use to search for opportunities if not noted above: Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).