Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Training Specialists must communicate with various levels of management, institution departments, individual staff, and groups of students. They present courses of instruction utilizing a variety of lecture techniques and tools including group discussions, role playing, practical exercises, audio-visual aids and handouts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with training or instructional events such as Annual Refresher Training; and/or I have assisted the primary instructor in presentation of course material; and/or I have given presentations in college; and/or I have participated in group discussions to establish consensus or a plan of action; and/or I have completed a public speaking course in college or junior college; and/or I have worked as a teacher's aid in any educational environment. I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations or lesson plans that are utilized to train or inform participants at a national level; and/or I have presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors and upper level managers. I have provided training at the institutional/local level using multiple training/instructional methods; and/or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings or attended executive staff/management level meetings and presented information in an acting capacity. None of the above. 5 Training Specialists communicate in writing with a variety of people, including management at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, staff and individuals outside of the organization. Effective writing skills are required in order to address areas of common interest or concerns regarding development of curricula, programs and/or performance standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed documents and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify and/or further define policy and procedure; and/or I have created draft program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; and/or I have submitted curriculum that required some grammatical and content changes, modified curricula/lesson plans, submitted recommendations to update instructional program statements to conform with policy changes. I have researched and developed a body of information that is utilized to train employees, modify policy and/or procedure, or influence executive level staff to implement change to national policy; and/or I have submitted a technical document or executive staff paper which impacted personnel throughout the agency/organization; and/or I have independently developed advanced curricula that is easy to understand. I have prepared internal memorandums conveying basic/routine information; and/or I have submitted documents which, upon review, require significant editing of content and grammar; and/or I have assisted in reviewing work prepared by others for format, content and grammatical accuracy. I have prepared agency/organization reports pertaining to training initiatives; and/or I have prepared written documents free of grammatical errors and easy to understand and meet the needs of both entry level and seasoned employees; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement. I have developed proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have written thesis for advanced graduate or post-graduate research; and/or I have written a detailed article for a published newspaper; and/or I have written a paper for a professional or academic group; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement; and/or I have prepared an instructional evaluation program; and/or I have prepared a detailed report summarizing the results of a project. None of the above. 6 Training Specialists must be able to identify training and program needs in order to develop training that fosters occupational progression. As a Training Specialist, they need to be aware of alternatives to training programs offered by the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed class evaluation forms on instructors to determine if improvement is needed; and/or I have provided guidance and assistance to other locations regarding employee development/training; and/or I have conducted needs assessments and attended a formal course that provided the applicant with formal instruction skills. I have developed or modified training programs for a government agency; and/or I have developed a training program after conducting a needs assessment; and/or I have functioned as the workgroup leader for a workgroup/task force in developing new training programs; and/or I have planned and coordinated training programs based on management requests; and/or I have provided training instruction in two or more subject matter areas at the collegiate or national agency training level. I have prepared audiovisual materials; and/or I have carried out training functions such as scheduling instructors and classes; and/or I have assisted in developing an annual training plan to address the needs of a large group of employees. I have provided training at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have taught or provided educational instruction in a secondary level education environment; and/or I have completed the BOP's Training for Trainers course or equivalent. None of the above. 7 Training Specialists must have extensive knowledge of Federal Prisons System policies and procedures regarding institution operation and control. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized written policy in day-to-day duties; and/or I have learned BOP security procedures; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of policies relating to a limited or specialized program area; and/or I have worked as a member of a committee to improve emergency preparedness procedures; and/or I have worked as a member of an American Correctional Association (ACA) committee; and/or I have participated in operational reviews, or comparable internal audits. I have worked in the capacity of assistant department head, or cost center manager; and/or I have participated in program reviews, or comparable external audits; and/or I have served as resource staff for training programs; and/or I have developed post-orders or recommended changes to any BOP security procedures which were approved and implemented locally. I have served as administrative duty officer, institution duty officer, institution executive staff or department head; and/or I have developed program statements or national policy which outlined or delineated security procedures; and/or I have developed training aids and/or formal lesson plans regarding BOP procedures; and/or I have developed a plan for evaluating a training program; and/or I have recommended changes to any procedures, which were approved and implemented on the national level. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 7 TENURE LIMITATION: This position has a four-year tenure limitation. At the end of the 4th year, incumbent is subject to geographic relocation to meet the needs of the Agency. It is expected that upon the completion of the 3rd year, incumbent will be seeking positions nationwide. Once an instructor fulfills the tenure limit agreement, the Agency, at its' discretion, will place the employee into an alternative position (same grade) with probability of a geographic relocation. Answer to this question is required Yes, I understand and agree this position is subject to a four (4) year tenure limitation. At the conclusion of the four (4) year tenure limitation, I agree that I will be subject to geographic relocation at the discretion of the agency. No, I do not accept the tenure limitation. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).