Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 [334] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72951] In response to question number 334, in approximately 500 words or less, please answer the following. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience in the application of shipboard supply management, and inventory control of repair parts and consumable material AND experience in material storage and transfer, equipment configuration management, ship allowance list management and processing of excess material AND experience performing shipboard inventories and applying results to the designated inventory management software application. This matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 [73138] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in shipboard supply management to include specific experience conducting material receipt transactions, issue and replenishment activities to include control of repair part and consumable material inventories. Include your specific roles and examples across ship classes to include inventory size and frequency and types of material. Discuss techniques used to mitigate inventory loss/gain across material types and any best practices applied. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73139] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in proper material stowage and transfer, equipment configuration, ship allowance list management and processing of excess material. Describe the importance of accurate configuration management reporting. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73140] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in performing physical shipboard inventories and applying results to the designated inventory management application or system. Include inventory size, material type and frequency of inventories conducted and the roles you have performed. Discuss actions for loss or gain of inventory items to include local policy or procedures applied. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. 2.1 [73141] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to carry out duties and responsibilities associated with shipboard supply and inventory management. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73142] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your formal education has prepared you to execute specific shipboard configuration and allowance management activities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73143] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your educational background helps you perform inventories and apply outcomes to the designated inventory management applications. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. 2.1 [73138] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in shipboard supply management to include specific experience conducting material receipt transactions, issue and replenishment activities to include control of repair part and consumable material inventories. Include your specific roles and examples across ship classes to include inventory size and frequency and types of material. Discuss techniques used to mitigate inventory loss/gain across material types and any best practices applied. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73139] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in proper material stowage and transfer, equipment configuration, ship allowance list management and processing of excess material. Describe the importance of accurate configuration management reporting. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73140] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in performing physical shipboard inventories and applying results to the designated inventory management application or system. Include inventory size, material type and frequency of inventories conducted and the roles you have performed. Discuss actions for loss or gain of inventory items to include local policy or procedures applied. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.4 [73141] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to carry out duties and responsibilities associated with shipboard supply and inventory management. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.5 [73142] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your formal education has prepared you to execute specific shipboard configuration and allowance management activities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.6 [73143] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your educational background helps you perform inventories and apply outcomes to the designated inventory management applications. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 11 1 Choose the response that best describes your experience at the GS-11 level listed in the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level as described above and in the vacancy announcement. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M in a related field. (Transcript required). I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first two years of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position (Transcripts required). None of the above. 2 [73119] In response to question number 67798, in approximately 500 words or less, please answer the following. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience in the application of documented inventory management regulations, policies, and procedures to ensure receipt and material identification of spare parts and equipment is properly documented AND experience the management and analysis of inventory data within a designated inventory management software application AND experience in the application of shipboard and/or warehouse inventory and material identification processes sufficient to conduct extensive research to resolve item discrepancies. This experience is well described in my application. 2.1 [73112] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in the application of documented inventory management regulations, policies and procedures to ensure proper receipt and material identification of spare parts, equipage and equipment is properly documented. Provide examples of how you applied specific regulations/policies or procedures and your role in the successful completion of your assigned duties/responsibilities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73113] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in the management and analysis of inventory data within a designated inventory management software application including specific applications/systems used and level of experience. Describe one specific data analysis event, your role and and it&rsquo;s importance to the ship&rsquo;s mission. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73114] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in application of shipboard and/or warehouse and inventory and material identification processes to conduct extensive research for resolution of item discrepancies and equipment application. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. 2.1 [73144] In approximately 500 words or less, please discuss how your educational background will help you properly identify inventory material and its associated equipment application. &nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73145] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to manage and analyze inventory data resident in a local inventory management application. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73146] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to appropriately interpret and apply documented inventory management regulations, policies and procedures to ensure proper receipt and identification of spare parts, equipage and equipment. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position 2.1 [73112] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in the application of documented inventory management regulations, policies and procedures to ensure proper receipt and material identification of spare parts, equipage and equipment is properly documented. Provide examples of how you applied specific regulations/policies or procedures and your role in the successful completion of your assigned duties/responsibilities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73113] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in the management and analysis of inventory data within a designated inventory management software application including specific applications/systems used and level of experience. Describe one specific data analysis event, your role and and it&rsquo;s importance to the ship&rsquo;s mission. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73114] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in application of shipboard and/or warehouse and inventory and material identification processes to conduct extensive research for resolution of item discrepancies and equipment application. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.4 [73144] In approximately 500 words or less, please discuss how your educational background will help you properly identify inventory material and its associated equipment application. &nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.5 [73145] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to manage and analyze inventory data resident in a local inventory management application. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.6 [73146] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education has prepared you to appropriately interpret and apply documented inventory management regulations, policies and procedures to ensure proper receipt and identification of spare parts, equipage and equipment. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).