Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education) Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 7 level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. I have an equivalent combinations of education and experience for which both education and experience are acceptable. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements describe administrative activities that you have carried out? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have composed letters, memoranda and reports I have created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have arranged travel including plane, car, and hotel reservations. I have created travel authorizations in a system such as GovTrip. I have used a word processing application to create documents and reports. I have used a word processing application to format documents and reports with footnotes, headers, tables of contents, and similar features. I have acted as a timekeeper and entered time-and-attendance data into a system such as WebTA. I have arranged, coordinated, or supported conferences, lectures, or similar meetings. I have responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your ability to analyze and recommend improvements in workflow and office procedures? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training analyzing or recommending improvements in workflow and office procedures. I have completed formal education or training in analyzing or recommending improvements in workflow and office procedures, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed and recommended improvements in workflow and office procedures on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have analyzed and recommended improvements in workflow and office procedures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have analyzed and recommended improvements in workflow and office procedures as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to prioritize and develop work assignments while effectively responding to day-to-day administrative changes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of these tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained others in performance of these skills and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Do you have experience researching and/or analyzing administrative problems and developing recommendations for resolution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing the logistics of meetings, public programs, and special events for a non-profit organization? Answer to this question is required I have managed the planning and implementation of special events and public programs for a major community, city, or museum (including event follow-up). I have managed the planning and implementation of special events for a non-profit organization other than a museum (including event follow-up). I have worked as part of a team in the planning and implementation of special events for a non-profit organization. I have not done any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in planning, coordinating and establishing work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in managing complex calendaring and any related travel arrangements pertaining to public programs planning. I have completed training in managing complex calendaring and any related travel arrangements, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned, coordinated and managed complex calendaring and any related travel arrangements on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have planned, coordinated and managed complex public programs calendaring and any related travel arrangements on the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, coordinated and managed complex public programs calendaring and any related travel arrangements on the job as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following logistical requirements have you been responsible for arranging for public programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Space reservations including processes and forms submission. Coordinating technology requirements of the program (computers, presentation software, etc.). Arranging travel and accommodations for presenters. Contracts and purchasing requirements for public programs. Program marketing (email, social media, web pages). Participant registration. Preparing program materials (brochures, programs, etc.) for participants. None of the above. 9 Which of the following activities related to project management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed project timelines and schedules. I have established and defined project milestones and deliverables. I have tracked progress against established project timelines and schedules. I have managed more than one project at a time. I have used software to aid in the development and tracking of project tasks and schedules. I have made adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. None of the above. 10 Which of the following reflects your experience in project management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led the planning, organization, and execution of projects with multiple components. I have developed and monitored complex project schedules with multiple, simultaneous workflows and deliverables. I have developed and monitored project budgets. I have been responsible for project procurement. I have resolved conflicts and differences among project/team members. I have managed projects and/or teams with staff from outside organizations. I have formal training in project management. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in using software to create tables, charts, and/or graphic presentations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in using software to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations. I have completed formal education or training in using software to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used software to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have used software to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used software to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following computer software applications have you used as part of your job in the last two years? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Microsoft Office Suite software. Project management software (e.g., MS Project, Smartsheet). Photo editing software (e.g., Adobe Illustrator, PhotoShop). Graphic design software (e.g., InDesign). Digital program software (e.g., Zoom, Microsoft Teams). Museum Collections Information Systems (e.g. EMu, FileMaker, TMS). I do not have experience with any common office software applications. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with interpersonal communication in an organizational setting (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management's views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge. None of the above. 14 Which of the following statements describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager, I have orally presented ideas and decisions to office staff (providing directions). I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to the information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience that was not responsive to the information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated administrative information to internal audiences. I have taught less experienced personnel on administrative operations. I have limited public speaking skills. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 15 Which of the following statement(s) describe the written communication/briefing skills you have used to convey information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials for reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. I have compiled text and images from various sources and edited cohesive reports that are well-organized and appropriate for the intended audience. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in writing. I have not performed any of the above. 16 Which of the following written materials have you prepared in support of public or educational programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Correspondence arranging or confirming a presentation by a lecturer, demonstrator, or performer. E-mails or administrative forms to request and confirm logistical arrangements (i.e., room reservations, security, AV services, vendor services, etc.). Calendar or web listings with a short narrative describing a program. Advertising copy. Brochures or concert programs. Postings for social media. Training or procedural materials. Lesson plans or educational resources. I have not performed any of the above. 17 Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or training contributing to the evaluation and research of educational programs, including performing data collection and data analysis activities. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 18 Which of the following describes your experience performing research related to the implementation of programs for the public? &nbsp;(Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched various logistical requirements (space, supplies, etc.) required for public programs. I have researched different technologies for use in public programs. I have researched a variety of goods and services in order to meet program requirements. I have researched educational content required for public programs. I have researched administrative procedures in order to improve operations. I have not performed any of the tasks listed above. 19 Which statement best describes your research experience? Answer to this question is required I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization to gather information. I have primarily worked with independent outside experts to gather information. I have had discussions with staff within an organization on a specific topic. I gather most of my information through online research. I have read books and gathered information online on a particular topic. I do not have experience conducting research. 20 Which of the following statements demonstrate endeavors in which you have personally engaged in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified needs or problems and determined necessary action. I have proposed recommendations based on personal research or inquiries to obtain information. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames. I have read, comprehended, interpreted, and acted on a variety of incoming and outgoing materials relating to the activities of the staff. I have prioritized work and tracked pending actions to ensure timely completion of work assignments. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience conceptualizing, researching, and writing content appropriate for public programs, exhibitions, publications, and educational materials? Answer to this question is required I have independently researched, organized, developed, and written substantive content for a creative media-based project such as a website, publication, or exhibition published or presented by an organization. I have worked as a member of a project team researching, organizing, developing, and writing substantive content published or presented by an organization. I have researched, conceptualized, and written content for an organization. I do not have experience researching, organizing, and writing content. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.