Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have completed four (4) academic years of post high school study leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 Applicants applying for this position MUST be currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a half time or full time basis and have an overall grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 or above to be eligible for the DOJ Pathways Internship Program. From the choices below, select the answer choice appropriate. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution AND I am attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I am currently in my last semester prior to receiving my degree AND I have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. NOTE: All applicants MUST submit legible transcripts which document their overall GPA AND documentation as specified in the Required Documents and Qualification Sections of the vacancy announcement verifying current enrollment and attendance on a half time or full time basis. The documentation must be provided at the time of application. I am not currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution OR I am not attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I do not currently have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Student Trainee must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written reports as a final exam; and/or I have written articles for newsletter/blog; and/or I have prepared notes for use by others. I have written a portion of a group report; and/or I have maintained track of assignments using a computer-based program; and/or I have completed a college level writing course. I have completed a written assignment/project; and/or I have completed a resume or application; and/or I have completed an evaluation for a specific educational course. None of the above. 4 The Student Trainee receives inquiries from individuals throughout all levels of the organization, as well as the general public. The Student Trainee must be able to communicate professionally and must be able to answer inquires in a clear and consistent manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral book report/presentation as part of a group; and/or I have assisted other student in work study; and/or I have answered inquiries regarding courses. I have presented an oral report as a final exam; and/or I have shared up-to-date information with others to complete a project; and/or I have presented the ideas of others to complete a group study as required by the professor. I have given a presentation during a public speaking course; and/or I have presented information from a student survey to improve classroom environment; and/or I have used PowerPoint to present information to other students. None of the above. 5 The Student Trainee must be able to utilize various computer applications to complete work assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified existing tables, charts or graphs using computer software; and/or I have created letters or reports using word processing software; and/or I have entered or retrieved information from a database. I have created a report from data on a database; and/or I have created tables, spreadsheets, charts or graphs on a computer; and/or I have created an electronic presentation using a computer application. I have used an electronic mail system to generate e-mails; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted forms using a word processing application; and/or I have prepared documentation for reports using a word processing software. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).