Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 13 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience in the practice of law in the areas of federal employment law, harassment and retaliation, to include providing advice and counsel to senior management officials on administrative investigations and corrective and disciplinary actions; litigating federal labor or employment matters before courts or administrative agencies. 2 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 15 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 14 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience in the practice of law in the areas of federal employment law, harassment and retaliation, to include providing advice and counsel to senior management officials on administrative investigations and corrective and disciplinary actions; developing federal employment, disciplinary, and misconduct policy; litigating federal labor or employment matters before courts or administrative agencies. 2 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 Are you an active member in good standing of the bar of a State, U.S. Commonwealth, U.S. territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a J.D., LL.B. or LL.M. Degree? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I acknowledge, if tentatively selected for this position, I must submit a copy of my official transcripts as outlined in the Qualification section of this announcement in order to receive further consideration.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 9 I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).