Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Service. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Planning, designing, leading and executing national and grassroots media relations and/or public education programs; 2) experience managing a multi-dimensional, high-productive public relations or public information office; 3) developing, writing and editing various types of complex materials, including reports, speeches, and briefing papers for senior executives; and 4) experience with contracting and budgeting. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following written products have you independently developed in a work environment? (Your resume must support your response.) Answer to this question is required Speeches Briefing papers/memoranda Talking Points Opinion pieces/longform articles Instructional/guidance materials Newsletters Power Point presentations Q&As Press releases None of the Above 4 In relation to your written communications, choose those that you have done: Answer to this question is required I have written professional quality press releases, that were reviewed and edited by supervisors or others before being sent. I have independently written and sent professional quality press releases, that were grammatically correct, properly punctuated, and were not first edited by supervisors or others. I have written talking points, op-eds, speeches, and/or longform articles that were first edited by supervisors or others before becoming finalized. I have independently written talking points, op-eds, speeches, and/or longform articles without substantive edits first by supervisors or others. None of the above. 5 In relation to your verbal communication skills, choose those that you have done: Answer to this question is required Explained complicated, technical to media, outside stakeholders or internal audiences in laymen speak. Described a program or service to an individual or group. Verbally defended a stance you took on an issue. Answered questions based on a presentation you gave. Obtained feedback on an issue you presented to management. Provided verbal guidance to others on a technical issue. Facilitated a group's discussion. Represented your organization to an outside group. Orally justified your findings or recommendations to a senior management official. Presented a topic at a multi-agency conference. None of the above. 6 Evaluate your experience planning and directing communications and public information activities of an organization which conducts programs of national scope. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance performing this task/competency. 7 Select the option below that best describes your experience preparing senior officials for interviews or public events. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in preparing senior officials for interviews or public events. I have had education and training in preparing senior officials for interviews or public events but have not yet performed it on the job. I have experience preparing senior officials for interviews or public events, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience preparing senior officials for interviews or public events, independently and as a regular part of my job. I have supervised and/or trained others in preparing senior officials for interviews or public events. 8 Describe the activity (ies) for which you have been responsible on the job. Answer to this question is required Managing media contacts and rosters Securing media coverage Maintaining existing media contacts and cultivating new ones I have current media contacts as a former or current journalist. I have not had experience with media contacts or securing media coverage. 9 Which statement best describes your experience working with national and local broadcast media? Answer to this question is required I have pitched news stories to the national broadcast media. Those stories were aired by the national news media. I have current contacts in the national broadcast media whom I engage on a regular basis. I have pitched news stories to national newspapers, i.e. New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, USA Today. Those stories were printed or posted by national newspapers. I have current contacts at the national newspapers whom I engage on a regular basis. I have not pitched news stories to the national news media that were aired. I do not have current contacts in the national broadcast media or at national newspapers whom I engage on a regular basis. I have extensive media contacts as a working journalist. 10 Select the choice that best describes your experience and knowledge about media relations. Answer to this question is required I have conducted interviews and responded to questions and/or criticism from journalists concerning sensitive and complex policies and issues. I have arranged interviews for people I worked for. I have kept fully apprised of broadcast, print and online news reports and studied how each operates. I do not have direct experience with the media. 11 Which of the following have you done as part of an information outreach. Answer to this question is required Handled budgets and tracked expenses for public information campaigns Written talking points for a public information campaign Written press releases for a public information campaign Set up a press conference for public information campaign Written articles as a working journalist that were published. None of the above. 12 Have you ever directly supervised a group of employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 13 I have effectively performed the following duties regarding operations management and oversight. Check all that apply and be prepared to provide specific examples of your experience if you are called for an interview. Answer to this question is required Developed an annual operating budget for the organization and effectively spent funds to meet mission objectives according to Federal budgeting requirements. Developed and implemented management control procedures to ensure effective and efficient use of financial and personnel resources. Evaluated existing administrative processes and reengineered/streamlined processes based on review of results. Provided management coordination of a project team and provided expert advice to senior management. Formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas. None of the above. 14 Select the statement that best describes your experience in the hiring, training, and supervision of staff. Answer to this question is required I have been a team leader, but have not been in a supervisory role. I have supervised and managed a team of less than 5 employees. I have supervised and managed a team of 6-20 employees, and been directly involved in hiring and/or training new members of the team. I have supervised and managed a team of more than 20 employees, and been directly involved in hiring and/or training new members of the team. I do not have any experience hiring or training staff. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 15 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 16 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).