Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, policies, and procedures to develop and issue solicitations and contracts.** Applied knowledge of Federal contracting laws, regulations and policies to perform all aspects of contracting transactions, from initiation to recommendation for award. Answer to this question is required Completed all aspects of contracting transactions to procure items and services with specialized or unique requirements and provided technical direction and review to a contracting team. Completed all aspects of a diverse range of contracting transactions to procure goods and services with specialized or unique requirements. Completed all aspects of contracting transactions to procure goods and services where standard contracting methods were used. None of The Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate in writing.** Drafted, reviewed, and edited documents and reports related to contract and procurement activities, including acquisition and source selection plans; price negotiation memoranda or trade off analysis; contract review or business clearance memoranda; solicitations and contracts; interagency agreements; and determinations and findings; reports in response to protests, claims, or congressional inquiries. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared ALL of the above documents. Documents authored were substantive in nature and was required to convey complex concepts. Rationale provided for why the document was effective displayed a high degree of understanding of effective communication. The application and resume are clear and concise, clearly addresses questions, uses persuasive language, and is free of grammatical errors. Prepared THREE or more of the above documents, including acquisition and source selection plans; price negotiation memoranda or trade off analysis; and contract review or business clearance memoranda. Documents authored were substantive in nature and was required to convey complex concepts. The application and resume are clear and concise, clearly addresses questions, uses persuasive language, and is free of grammatical errors. Prepared TWO of the above documents, including price negotiation memoranda or trade off analysis. The application and resume are clear and concise, clearly addresses questions, uses persuasive language, and is free of grammatical errors. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to solicit, negotiate, and monitor contracts.** The ability to negotiate and monitor contracts with vendors. This includes the ability to 1) define necessary work, 2) solicit, and 3) analyze proposals, 4) make recommendations for vendor selection, 5) finalize contract terms, and 6) initiate contract revisions to satisfy evolving program requirements. This also includes 7) the ability to oversee contractor activities and 8) ensure contract requirements are met and all activities are performed in compliance with contract terms. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above when soliciting, negotiating, and monitoring contracts for unusual and complex services and supplies using a broad range of contract types and procurement methods. Performed ALL of the above when soliciting, negotiating, and monitoring contracts for specialized for services and supplies using various contract types and methods. Performed ALL of the above when soliciting, negotiating, and monitoring contracts for standard commercial off-the-shelf services and supplies. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to lead a team. The ability to assess and instruct team members and recommend relevant and appropriate training. This includes the ability to: 1) review the work of team members for compliance with legal, regulatory, and procedural requirements and best practices; 2) plan, prioritize, and balance team projects or assignments to accomplish work in a timely manner; and 3) serve as an advisor to program officials in procurement planning, and advising clients on effective strategies to achieve their needs. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above while instructing and advising staff on acquisition policies and procedures, competition, contract formation and ordering. Led staff in accomplishment of complex, sensitive project objectives with significant importance for fulfillment of an agency or organizational mission. Performed ALL of the above while instructing and advising a team on acquisition policies and procedures, competition, contract formation and ordering. Led a team in accomplishment of complex, sensitive project objectives with significant importance for fulfillment of unit objectives. Provided key support in ensuring team accomplishment of project objectives related to acquisition policies and procedures, competition, contract formation and ordering. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).