Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 With which of the following IT topics do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Cloud implementations and development Business Process Automation (BPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Advanced simulations Software architecture Enterprise architecture SecDevOps Agile software development Secure Software Development Life Cycle (SSDLC) Application security Static code analysis Dynamic application security testing UX / UI Open source Source control Large-scale application and/or data migrations Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) integration Mobile application development Data analysis SQL queries Technical documentation None of the above 4 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues. Answer to this question is required Risk Management Personnel Security Compartmentalization Defense in depth Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance Counter-Terrorism Counter-intelligence Information Assurance International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) Construction Security Technical Security Physical Security Force Protection Countermeasures Information Technologies None of the above 5 Please indicate all the areas that you have experience related to Cyber Security operational tasks: Answer to this question is required Physical and Logical Network Segmentation Multi-Factor Authentication Network Configuration & Monitoring (signature & heuristics based) Zero Client Architectures Cloud Computing Security Security Operations Center design and management Mobile Device Security Dynamic System Defenses Data-At-Rest & Data-In Transit Protections Data Centric Security Micro Hypervisor Technologies Applications Whitelisting None of the above 6 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 7 From the following list, please indicate the activities to which you have applied all-source intelligence analysis. Answer to this question is required Implementing Intelligence Community (IC) Directives (ICDs) regarding analytical products Exchanging analytic information, ideas, and opinions through classification-appropriate social media tools (e.g., Diplopedia, Intellipedia, Corridor, A-Space, Twitter) Service as primary drafter / creator on all-source intelligence assessments and other analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on briefings Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic briefings Publishing of your analytic product(s) by an agency in the US Intelligence Community (IC), such as the Director of National Intelligence's National Intelligence Council (NIC) or the President's daily Briefing Book (PDB) None of the above 8 Select the strategic planning, policy and evaluation activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Conducts evaluation of unit activities in relation to its goals and objectives. Establishes unit program and workload objectives. Makes changes in unit structure, procedures, etc., in order to improve effectiveness and efficiency. Directs or manages the incorporation of requirements for new technology, hardware, software, and human resources into long-range and short-range plans. Reviews and evaluates the effectiveness of policies and procedures. Integrates internal and external program and policy issues into long-range plans. Implements policies, standards and procedures regarding the maintenance of LAN / WAN infrastructure. Develops policies, procedures and strategies that ensure optimization and integration in the installation, configuration and maintenance of telecommunications networks. Develops long-and short-range plans for the unit. Recommends initiatives to improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of telecommunications applications. Develops contingency plans and operating procedures for the unit. None of the above. 9 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 10 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government Officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 11 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to recognize and extract relevant information from various databases, reports, and files to apply new research avenues and methodologies? Answer to this question is required I have collected information from a variety of sources and evaluated the information`s relevance, significance, etc. I have work experience in independently anticipating and identifying information needs, comparing / contrasting information from different sources, using secondary / indirect sources and recognizing gaps in information. I have extensive work experience and a high level of proficiency in anticipating and identifying information needs, comparing / contrasting information from several different sources, and in routinely using secondary / indirect sources to recognize and fill gaps in information. I am proficient at researching information to close significant gaps, making suggestions to fill those gaps, and in projecting data for estimates of future situations. I have mastery level proficiency in analyzing data and projecting estimates of future situations. None of the above. 12 Please indicate which of the following areas you have quantitative / qualitative analysis skills: Answer to this question is required Quantitative analysis: statistics / modeling / surveys Developing hypotheses Evaluating information sources Identifying trends and patterns in behavior / activities / events Identifying independent and dependent variables None of the above 13 From the choices below, select all those that apply to you regarding your skills in accessing, evaluating, identifying and/or corroborating data: Answer to this question is required I have substantial knowledge and skills in accessing data from a wide variety of sources. I have skill in evaluating sources and data for relevance and value. I have skill in identifying intelligence gaps and sources to fill these gaps. I have skill in corroborating source information. None of the above. 14 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.