Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you hold a current FAC-C certification in contracting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following have you procured in the past five (5) years, in a cumulative amount in excess of $1,000,000? Answer to this question is required Professional services Office or other supplies Architect and engineering services Construction services Other procurements not described here None of these 5 Choose the statement that best describes your background in procurement. If more than one statement is true, choose the one closest to the top that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have carried out contracting officer duties, or I have directly supervised a procurement staff, within the past year. I have carried out contracting officer duties, or I have directly supervised a procurement staff, within the past three years. I have carried out contracting officer duties, or I have directly supervised a procurement staff, within the past five years. My contract officer or procurement supervision experience was acquired more than five years ago. My background in procurement is not accurately described here. 6 Have you ever terminated a contract, for reasons of Convenience or default? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Throughout your career, how many substantive internal operating procedures, directly related to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, have you written? Answer to this question is required 0 1 to 3 4 to10 11 or more 8 Throughout your career, how many training sessions or formal information briefings, directly related to procurement regulations, have you delivered? Answer to this question is required 0 1 to 3 4 to 10 11 or more 9 Within the past ten years, have you reviewed and provided comments on FAR regulatory provisions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you hold a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s unlimited warrant? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following statements describes your experience related to supervision? (Choose all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have provided administrative supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinates’ work for accuracy and completeness. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees and held them accountable. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employee. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees and developed a plan to meet those needs. I have ensured staff are appropriately engaged, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from subordinate employees. I have provided technical guidance to fellow employees. I have served in a formal role of team lead and received favorable performance feedback for it. None of the above statements describes my experience. 12 Do you have experience writing letters of caution, warning or reprimand to subordinate employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you developed technical training that was presented to both technical and non-technical audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Have you ever received a top performance rating (e.g., "outstanding," "exemplary") as a supervisor? For purposes of this question, a supervisor is someone who has authority to hire, coach, motivate and evaluate employees. Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Do you have experience working with multiple, distinct customer offices to plan acquisitions over a multi-year period? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you researched procurement action protest precedents and outcomes in trade publications and databases? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you assisted in the development of a strategy or plan for deployment of a new technology, product or offering? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Are you conversant in Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB)circulars? "Conversant" means that you could explain them and their correct application, in detail, during a job interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 I have experience independently Answer to this question is required completing non-federal procurement forms and preparatory documents. completing federal procurement forms and preparatory documents. establishing procurement time frames for a solicitation. defining funding and budgetary requirements for a procurement. managing a corporate procurement process manaing a federal procurement process doing none of these 20 Complete the following statement accurately: Within the past three years, I have logged into and used&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Oracle Prism Momentum PD2 Automated Acquisition Management Solution Other financial or acquisition management systems not mentioned here None of these 21 Have you prepared budget estimates for senior management review? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 Have you managed funds in an environment that uses both Federal and non-Federal funds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Have you conducted pre-bid and post-award conferences for requirements with a cumulative value of at least $1 million? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Have you effectively led or overseen the settlement of multiple pre-award/post-award contractor protests (either GAO or Agency)? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.