Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to Grade 09 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you currently possess a Nicet level 2 or higher “fire alarm” certification(s) as it relates to this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describe your experience with existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression system? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems and diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I do not have experience, education, or training in analyzing existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or in diagnosing faults in the systems and equipment. I have analyzed existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in analyzing existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or diagnosing faults in the systems and equipment, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems and diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following Electronic Technician tasks describe your experience with fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience troubleshooting fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I have experience programming fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I have experience installing fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I do not have experience with troubleshooting, programming, or installing fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings 5 Do you have experience managing analytical projects to identify patterns and trends using project management software (i.e., Microsoft Project)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems? Answer to this question is required I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems. I have had education or training in mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge of NFPA codes to interpret specifications, plans, inspections, and testing of life safety systems? Answer to this question is required I understand NFPA codes required to read specifications and plans to perform required preventive maintenance work pertaining to fire alarm and sprinkler systems. I understand NFPA codes required to read specifications and plans to perform required preventive maintenance work pertaining to fire alarm and sprinkler systems, and I have experience in carrying out full range of testing and installation of new fire alarm and sprinkler systems according to set standards and related building codes. I have analyzed, modified, and interpreted specifications and plans to restore service to normal when malfunction or damage occur, and have analyzed test results to determine the condition of associated equipments as well as installing, testing, and performing scheduled maintenance on fire alarm and sprinkler systems, I do not have an understanding of NFPA codes. 8 Which of the following type(s) of fire alarm equipment do you have experience troubleshooting and repairing faults? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Siemens- MXL, FS-250, and XLS Siemens NCC Networking Notifier 640 Firelite MS9200 and MS9600 Silent Knight Keltron EST Simplex 4100/4100U Pyrotronics System 3 Vesda MSA Gas Detection None of the above 9 Which of the following type(s) of fire alarm equipment do you have experience installing and programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Siemens- MXL, FS-250, and XLS Siemens NCC Networking Notifier 640 Firelite MS9200 and MS9600 Silent Knight Keltron EST Simplex 4100/4100U Vesda MSA Gas Detection None of the above 10 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed these duties on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have experience as described in the choices above. 11 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you have experience studying blue prints or specifications to make recommendations for design change? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Constructware, prolog, or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Adobe. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to Grade 11 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you currently possess a Nicet level 3 or higher “fire alarm” certification and Nicet level 1 or higher certification(s) in Special Hazards or Water Based inspections? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describe your experience with existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression system? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems and diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I do not have experience, education, or training in analyzing existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or in diagnosing faults in the systems and equipment. I have analyzed existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in analyzing existing or proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems or diagnosing faults in the systems and equipment, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed existing and proposed fire dampers, fire detection, and fire suppression systems and diagnosed faults in the systems and equipment as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following Electronic Technician tasks describe your experience with fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience troubleshooting fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I have experience programming fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I have experience installing fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings. I do not have experience with troubleshooting, programming, or installing fire alarm systems for commercial or public buildings 5 Do you have experience managing analytical projects to identify patterns and trends using project management software (i.e., Microsoft Project)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following statements best describe your experience managing calendars and suspense dates to provide support services? Answer to this question is required I have experience working on individual projects and assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My assignments are most generally completed with assigned suspense dates. I manage calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In addition to managing calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period I negotiate suspense date, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as of my work group. I do not have experience managing calendars and working on assignments with suspense dates. 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems? Answer to this question is required I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems. I have had education or training in mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used my knowledge of mechanical, electrical and plumbing theories, principles and practices as related to fire protection and suppression and other building systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge of NFPA codes to interpret specifications, plans, inspections, and testing of life safety systems? Answer to this question is required I understand NFPA codes required to read specifications and plans to perform required preventive maintenance work pertaining to fire alarm and sprinkler systems. I understand NFPA codes required to read specifications and plans to perform required preventive maintenance work pertaining to fire alarm and sprinkler systems, and I have experience in carrying out full range of testing and installation of new fire alarm and sprinkler systems according to set standards and related building codes. I have analyzed, modified, and interpreted specifications and plans to restore service to normal when malfunction or damage occur, and have analyzed test results to determine the condition of associated equipments as well as installing, testing, and performing scheduled maintenance on fire alarm and sprinkler systems, I do not have an understanding of NFPA codes. 9 Which of the following type(s) of fire alarm equipment do you have experience troubleshooting and repairing faults? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Siemens- MXL, FS-250, and XLS Siemens NCC Networking Notifier 640 Firelite MS9200 and MS9600 Silent Knight Keltron EST Simplex 4100/4100U Pyrotronics System 3 Vesda MSA Gas Detection None of the above 10 Which of the following type(s) of fire alarm equipment do you have experience installing and programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Siemens- MXL, FS-250, and XLS Siemens NCC Networking Notifier 640 Firelite MS9200 and MS9600 Silent Knight Keltron EST Simplex 4100/4100U Vesda MSA Gas Detection None of the above 11 Which of the following response best describes your highest level of experience (as regular part of your job) performing routine inspections and maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have performed routine inspections and maintenance with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed routine inspections and maintenance. I have assisted others in performing routine inspections and maintenance. I do not have experience performing routine inspections and maintenance. 12 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed these duties on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have experience as described in the choices above. 13 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Do you have experience studying blue prints or specifications to make recommendations for design change? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Constructware, prolog, or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Adobe. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements best describe your level of involvement in maintenance/ project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended maintenance/project meeting to receive instructions. I have participated in maintenance/project meetings by offering input. I have assisted in the coordination and management of maintenance/project meetings. I have coordinated and led maintenance/project meetings. I do not have experience with maintenance/project meeting. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.