Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to conduct data science analysis.** Ability to apply quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis techniques to conduct regression analysis, statistical analysis, modeling, mathematical programming, and data visualization in supporting the development of data collection. This includes: 1) identifying and collecting appropriate data; 2) applying and explaining the statistical and mathematical principles used; 3) selecting appropriate models and identifying when data is insufficient to reach conclusions; 4) developing a data analysis plan; 5) analyzing data; (6) summarizing findings and other results; 7) presenting and making recommendations to management; 8) designing and developing data collection methods and instruments; and 9) conducting observational analyses to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and to make informed decisions. Answer to this question is required Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed EIGHT (8) or ALL of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert or near expert knowledge. In doing so, performed at least FIVE (5) of the above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to prepare and present written technical reports and findings.** Conducted requirements gathering meetings or sessions with stakeholders and team members in both planned and extemporaneous situations. Translated complex concepts, findings, and requirements consistent with technical boundaries and present data responsive to requirements in an easily understandable format. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the stakeholder. Answer to this question is required Prepared and presented oral presentations/briefings targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained complex data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, frequently briefed all levels of management, including senior management, teammates, relevant stakeholders, and potential sources on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost/benefit analysis and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to system and project requirements. Served as a data science subject matter expert (SME) and technical advisor on data collection, analysis, and a specialist in computer science, statistics and mathematics for data evaluation. Prepared and presented oral presentations/briefings targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, frequently briefed all levels of management, including senior management, teammates, and relevant stakeholders on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost-benefit analysis and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to system and project requirements. Served as a subject matter expert SME and technical advisor on data collection. Prepared and presented oral presentations targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, briefed all levels of management, including senior management, on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost/benefit analysis, and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to project requirements. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of computer programming and development tools.** Applied various knowledge of computer programming languages to create and evaluate data collection. This includes conducting observational analyses using software and/or programming languages (R, Python, and/or SQL) and other business intelligence and visualization tools (Tableau and/or Power BI), and data management tools to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and inform decisions. Answer to this question is required Have extensive knowledge of programming languages such as R, Python, SQL, and other business intelligence and visualization tools (Tableau and/or Power BI) and have regularly and fully independently applied these tools to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and inform management on decision making. Have knowledge of programming languages such as R, Python, SQL, and other business intelligence and visualization tools (Tableau and/or Power BI) and have experience applying these tools to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and inform management on decision making independently or under supervision. Have some knowledge of programming languages such as R, Python, SQL, and other business intelligence and visualization tools (Tableau and/or Power BI) and have some experience applying these tools to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and inform management on decision making as part of a team. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to make recommendations based upon findings that support the agency mission.** Provides advice and guidance to team members on project decisions and recommendations, performed research and analysis related to operations and/or processes. This included determining pertinent issues, collecting, and analyzing relevant data and information from a variety of sources to develop recommendations for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely analyzed operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Occasionally analyzed operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Assisted in the analysis of operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to analyze, plan, develop and/or execute work. Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute work and projects. Answer to this question is required Executed work assignments, independently developing long range plans for new programs aligned with overall program and organizational priorities. Worked with senior managers to develop plans for the organization’s effective operation. Maximized use of resources, planned anticipated needs, and worked with others to develop comprehensive plans. Executed work assignments, independently developing new plans or schedules aligned with overall program and organization priorities. Identified work objectives, determined project approaches and planned execution of work, including specific project steps, schedules, milestones, and estimates of necessary resources and input. Executed work assignments, identified work objectives and determined project approaches. This included specific project steps, schedules, milestones, and estimates of necessary resources and input. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).