Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your work with senior management and supervisors to identify accurate position descriptions, develop staffing plans, discuss organizational requirements and explain restrictions and flexibilities inherent in classification, recruitment and placement? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following demonstrates human resources activities in which you have personally engaged in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided counsel and support on human resources management requirements. I have initiated personnel actions and related payroll functions as required. I have evaluated workforce positions to determine appropriate pay systems, occupational grouping, title, difficulty, level, etc. I have utilized knowledge of the relationship of position classification to management issues. I have utilized knowledge, judgment in advising on the application of the principles and techniques of recruitment, selection and placement, including merit promotion. I have reviewed and evaluated from an internal management and fiscal point of view, proposed personnel actions including appointments, promotions, awards, and training. I have directed the preparation of personnel documents for hiring, reassignment, promotion, performance evaluation, and employee recognition. I have assisted supervisors in structuring and describing positions. I have assisted supervisors in writing performance standards. I have reviewed completed position descriptions for proper format and uniformity. I have reviewed employee work plans for proper format and uniformity. I have ensured compliance with negotiated collective bargaining agreements. I have not performed any of the above functions. 4 Which of the following resources speciality area(s)or task(s) are you considered a technical expert in providing authoritative advice to managers and/or employees. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruitment planning and outreach. Political transition. Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, staffing and employment. Classification. Information Management Systems. Workforce Planning Senior Executive Services Performance Management Human Capital Initiatives Human Resources Metrics Strategic Planning Initiatives Human Resource Flexibilities Schedule C appointments Presidential appointees Career Senior Executive Service Non-career Senior Executive Service Executive Resources Review Committees Pay Banding Employee Benefits Employee Relations Labor Relations Leave Administration Human Resource Development Performance Management None of the above 5 Which of the following statements best describes the technical assistance you have provided to managers and supervisors on performance management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided advice and assistance to managers and supervisors in the concepts, practices and procedures involved in developing employee performance plans. I have provided advice and assistance to managers and supervisors in the concepts, practices and procedures involved in conducting appraisal interviews. I have developed guides and train managers and supervisors in the concepts and procedures of the performance management system. I have provided advice and assistance to managers and supervisors in the concepts, practices and procedures involved in developing, submitting, and justifying employee award nominations. I have not performed any of the above functions. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of HR theories, concepts, laws, regulations, and principles which provided you the experience to identify, evaluate, and recommend solutions to complex and controversial HR issues? Answer to this question is required I have resolved a variety of HR problems and issues pertaining to routine matters on a day-to-day basis. I have resolved a variety of complex HR problems and issues pertaining to sensitive top level management concerns. I have isolated and defined critical HR issues and provided precedent setting alternative solutions that impacted a Agency/Department. None of the above 7 Which of the following responses best matches your experience as it relates to an ability to independently provide HR management advisory services to employees and management? Answer to this question is required I have limited experience in this area. I have a moderate amount of experience and consider myself fully competent in this area. I have significant experience in this area and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive experience in this area and have assisted/trained others. I would consider myself an expert. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your proficiency level of experience with written communication? Answer to this question is required I have produced written correspondence to inform management officials and other staff within organization. I have produced written correspondence to inform and/or persuade top management officials within the agency. I have produced written correspondence for the purpose of reporting findings or defending a position. I have had education or training in written communication, but have not yet to author formal correspondence on the job. None of the above. 10 Which of the following automated Human Resources system(s) do you have experience using?(check all that apply) Answer to this question is required PeopleSoft Human Resources NFC EPIC NFC SPPS QuickHire/Hiring Management OPM USA Jobs OPM USA Staffing Electronic OPF OPM HR Manager Avue Quick Classification Resumix PeopleSoft Other commerical off the shelf automated HR Systems None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.