Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. For the GS-15 position: Applicant must possess at least four years of professional law experience and at least one year of that experience must be specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service performing the following:&nbsp; 1. Supervising, leading or managing Attorney Advisor staff. 2. Serving as the principal legal and policy advisor to the Bureau Chief on complex statutory, regulatory, and administrative matters involving the Communications Act, broadband deployment mandates, universal service programs, numbering administration, and competition policy. 3. Leading or overseeing management and administrative programs, including personnel management, equipment and other administrative support services, budget estimates and justifications, records and information resource management, management of Bureau counts and management analysis studies. 4. Managing budget formulation, presentation, implementation and execution for the Bureau. 5. Advising the Bureau Chief on emerging legal issues, strategic priorities, workflow management, inter-bureau coordination, and Commission-level decision-making. 6. Formulating recommendations, identifying legal risks, anticipating litigation vulnerabilities, and advising on legal sufficiency and defensibility of proposed Bureau actions and provides any/all related advice and guidance to the Bureau Chief. 1 I meet all of the qualification criteria outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 I am a current FCC employee. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Attorney positions. Choose the one answer that best describes your educational background required for an Attorney position: Answer to this question is required I have a JD, LL.B., and/or LL.M. I do not possess any of the degrees listed above. 8 I am a member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Answer to this question is required Yes No Professional law experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).