Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to manage projects in support of exhibition program goals.** Demonstrated ability to develop, design, and implement various projects in support of professional, public-facing exhibitions. Experience includes conducting the following: 1) preparing pre-award documents (such as statements of work and cost estimates) for contract resources; 2) monitoring contract resources post-award for quality and timeliness; 3) leading project planning and implementation efforts; 4) conducting research to inform decisions regarding multiple facets of exhibit administration; 5) tracking project deliverables; 6) negotiating project changes and interventions; and 7) collaborating with project stakeholders to achieve project goals and milestones. Answer to this question is required Independently managed projects in support of an exhibition program. Experience includes ALL the above tasks. Independently or as part of a team, managed projects in support of an exhibition program. Experience includes FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. Independently or as part of a team, managed projects in support of an exhibition program. Experience includes FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to conduct procurement and contract administration.** Demonstrated ability to serve as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Representative (COR). Experience includes: 1) overseeing contractors; 2) approving and/or recommending payments and modifications; 3) ensuring efficient integration of contractor products; 4) developing statements of work (SOW); 5) overseeing bid packages/bid processes; 6) preparing procurement documentation; and 7) logging requisitions in financial management systems. Answer to this question is required Independently and as a primary responsibility, served as a COR for an agency or organization. Duties included regularly performing ALL the above tasks. Independently and as a secondary responsibility, served as a COR for an agency or organization. Duties included regularly performing FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, and as a secondary responsibility, served as a COR for an agency or organization. Duties included regularly or frequently performing FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above/ 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide exhibit program management, evaluation, and oversight.** Provided program management and in doing so: 1) oversaw work activities; 2) monitored progress; 3) set priorities and program goals; 4) analyzed data to discern program patterns, trends, and relationships; 5) evaluated effectiveness of programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives; 6) developed strategies and proposals to improve program; 7) implemented approved, policy-compliant plans and objectives to improve and expand program effectiveness; and 8) prepared outputs such as spreadsheets, summaries, etc. in support of program. Answer to this question is required Independently provided program management, in doing so conducted SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above items. Independently or co-managed a program and in doing so, conducted FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above items. Co-managed a program and in doing so, conducted THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above items. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide liaison services. Interacted collaboratively with others and provided liaison services to exchange information with persons and groups inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and/or maintained professional contacts or cooperative relationships and presented information to high-level managers. Worked collaboratively with executives and senior managers, staff, contractors, volunteers, and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed and/or maintained professional contacts to establish cooperative relationships and explained information to managers. Worked collaboratively with staff, contractors, volunteers, and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed professional contacts to maintain cooperative relationships and explained information to managers. Worked collaboratively with staff, contractors, and volunteers internal to the organization to accomplish program objectives. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents related to organizational management such as 1) briefings, 2) strategic planning documents, 3) program performance plans, 4) reports, 5) finding and recommendations, 6) policy and procedure documents, 7) workshop materials, and 8) standard operating procedures. Answer to this question is required As the principal author, routinely wrote ALL of the above documents. Reviewed, edited, and presented those documents to senior leaders, management, and staff. As the principal author, routinely wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents. Reviewed, edited, and presented those documents to senior leaders, management, and staff. As the principal author, routinely wrote FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above documents. Reviewed, edited, and presented those documents to senior leaders, management, and staff. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).