Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 2 Indicate the extent to which you have analyzed operations, policies or procedures and made recommendations to increase operational efficiency. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing his task. 3 Which of the following BEST reflects your knowledge and experience in designing and developing training program materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have formal education and/or training in this task, but I have not yet applied this in a work situation. I have limited work experience developing or designing training program materials. I have worked as a team member in developing and designing training program materials. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by the supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have led teams in developing and designing training program materials. I have directed the work of others in developing and designing training programs materials. 4 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education, training, or experience with U.S. immigration laws? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in with U.S. immigration laws. I have formal training or education in or with U.S. immigration laws. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 5 From the choices below, select all those that apply to you regarding your skills in accessing, evaluating, identifying and/or corroborating data: Answer to this question is required I have substantial knowledge and skills in accessing data from a wide variety of sources. I have skill in evaluating sources and data for relevance and value. I have skill in identifying intelligence gaps and sources to fill these gaps. I have skill in corroborating source information. None of the above. 6 Evaluate your experience in conducting audits, including performing tests to identify and assess an agency?s or program?s internal controls and producing reports on the reliability and weaknesses of those controls. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior auditor. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior auditor. I have supervised other auditors in performing this task, and/or I have trained others in performing this task, and/or others normally consult me for assistance as an expert in performing this task. 7 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 8 Which option BEST reflects your highest level of experience applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying program management techniques. I have completed formal education or training on this topic. However, I have not performed this task on the job. I have experience establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and drafting performance measures and plans. This work was performed under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience implementing and reporting on the status of program management initiatives and performance measures that were established by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures, and identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. 9 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience conceptualizing innovative solutions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience conceptualizing innovative solutions. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in conceptualizing innovative solutions, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. 10 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. 11 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to write clear, concise, understandable and convincing reports? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 12 Please select the choice(s) that describe the types of supervisory / leadership functions have you performed: Answer to this question is required Leads task forces / project teams in advanced systems software / hardware project efforts. Evaluates performance of work unit to determine that it meets performance measures. Plans work for team or unit members. Provides functional / technical expertise in all assignments in work unit. Sets short-term and long-term work priorities for team or work members. Identifies developmental and training needs of employees. Develops performance standards and evaluate work performance of subordinates. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.