Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Reentry Sector Chief must possess the ability to develop a system within their assigned area to research the effectiveness of Bureau of Prisons programs and policies and provide recommendations for their improvement as they relate to the preparation of offenders for reentry. He/she must also be able to collect information and analyze resources, draw conclusions and make recommendations to develop additional resources, policies, plans and/or programs to enhance skill development and reentry success at individual institutions and region-wide. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed research to evaluate programs and resources and provided a plan to formulate program objectives having direct impact on national agency operations; and/or I have developed programs based on research to address the needs of the inmate population and drafted policy that was adopted at the national level; and/or I have designed and prepared statistical reports and presented them at national forums to demonstrate the impact of programs and practices on inmate reentry efforts. I have conducted research and evaluated/analyzed programs and provided recommendations, establishment, or modification of program objectives, plans, and/or policies having direct impact on national agency operations; and/or I have researched programs to determine their applicability in addressing needs of the inmate population and formulated policy recommendations that were adopted at the national level; and/or I have evaluated data and compiled information for special population needs and made recommendations for programs and/or changes to policy and procedures; and/or I have prepared statistical reports and presented them to Executive Staff to demonstrate the impact of programs. I have conducted research and evaluated/analyzed programs and resources and provided recommendations in the formulation, establishment, or modification of program objectives, plans, and/or policies having direct impact on local agency operations; and/or I have reviewed programs to determine their applicability to the inmate population and formulated local policy recommendations; and/or I have compiled information to target special population needs and made recommendations for further skill development programs and resources and/or changes to policy and procedures; and/or I have compiled data and assessed the quality and completeness of the application of assessment tools and planning documents; and/or I have prepared reports and presented them to local supervisory staff to demonstrate the impact of programs and practices on skill development and reentry efforts. None of the above. 6 The Reentry Sector Chief must possess the ability to effectively organize and coordinate multi-disciplinary and multi-agency information regarding reentry initiatives, policies, and related issues in order to determine potential impact on services to federal offenders. He/she must be able to design and utilize a variety of communication methods to efficiently disseminate information in a timely manner to appropriate internal and external sources involved in reentry efforts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been a troubleshooter/liaison with management problems; and/or I have gathered/collected statistics for annual/special reports impacting decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommendations to resolve issues; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency/organization practices impacting programs on a national level; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended programming procedures; and/or I have organized, coordinated and/or managed information used in the development of multi-disciplinary and multi-agency programs; and/or I have led a team in completing multi-disciplinary and multi-agency, simultaneous projects for mid/senior level executives and completed within established deadline. I have organized institution, region, or specialized program initiative after coordinating assessment of specific needs; and/or I have functioned as a workgroup/taskforce leader in developing a new program; and/or I have developed a system which ensured office/division/department projects are met, including the coordination of input/information required from other departments and agencies. I have organized information for others in the decision making process by reviewing/evaluating local programs to determine efficiency, and making recommendations for program improvement; and/or I have assisted in coordinating/developing assessment and corrective development plans for program weaknesses; and/or I have maintained and/or revised an established system which ensured projects are met; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage/ coordinate/initiate the flow of required information within an office.. None of the above. 7 The Reentry Sector Chief must possess the ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with individuals from a diverse range of backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations, that are involved or impact the development of skill development and reentry initiatives in such a way that motivates and influences them to collaborate and volunteer to participate in a varied range of activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed broad base reentry partnership resources for the releasing offender to include development of vocational training, apprenticeships, and mentor components; and/or I have identified volunteers and mentors to meet program needs for the inmate, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have developed and organized community reentry resources to provide services for returning offenders and their families and coordinated the development of local partnerships addressing workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts (i.e., Offender Employment Specialist training, skill development programs, release preparation classes, job fairs, conferences and workshops); and/or I have worked in partnership with multiple disciplines and agencies and identified strategies and developed plans that address targeted skill development needs and developed positive community relations. I have resolved conflicting priorities among stakeholders and achieved program goals; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have addressed and implemented programs focused on successful offender reentry. I have assisted with an open house or tours or speaking at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnerships with local agencies to include participation in community relations activities; and/or I have worked with staff at varying levels nationwide and developed reentry resources for releasing offender to include development of vocational training, apprenticeships, and mentor components; and/or I have organized volunteers/mentors for the inmate, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have identified community reentry resources for returning offenders and their families; and/or I have developed local partnerships and collaborative efforts to address workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts (i.e., Offender Employment Specialist training, skill development programs, release preparation classes, job fairs, conferences and workshops). None of the above. 8 The Reentry Sector Chief must possess the ability to effectively organize and coordinate multi-disciplinary and multi-agency related projects and processes to effectively enhance the skill development of offenders and ensure the availability of comprehensive reentry resources for the successful transition of offenders. He/she must be able to independently initiate projects and facilitate their development from conception through final implementation.&nbsp; This involves coordination and development of relevant policy directives and monitoring and management of the application of processes across multiple disciplines and agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed comprehensive reviews of division/unit/office operation and made recommendations to realign responsibilities and streamline program processes while maintaining policy compliance; and/or I have developed national policy and procedures for a specialty program area; and/or I have established reentry policy/guidelines consistent with federal statues; and/or I have directed the development of reentry program implementation for staff and inmates; and/or I have designed and developed a new program consistent with Bureau and federal policy and regulations that assisted in the preparation of offenders for return to society. I have conducted organizational/data collection studies relating to specific population needs; and/or I have developed flow charts/task analyses of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have generated statistical reports for executive level staff and external agencies (i.e., Department of Justice, Government Accountability Office, Office of Inspector General) to assist in developing policy for program implementation; and/or I have developed, implemented, and maintained automated systems to establish efficient methods for information collection and distribution; and/or I have established a career resource center for their institution which automates and provides a wide range of resources for inmates to include: career assessments, employment preparation services, job seeking assistance nationwide, identification and linkage to community resources nationwide. I have utilized organizational/data collection studies on projects relating to offenders; and/or I have assisted with the development of flow charts/task analyses of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have coordinated/monitored use of statistical reports for executive level staff/external agencies (i.e., Department of Justice, Government Accountability Office, Office of Inspector General) to assist in developing policy implementation for initiatives; and/or I have assisted in the implementation, and maintenance of automated systems designed to establish efficient methods for information collection and distribution; and/or I have monitored/coordinated a career resource center for their institution providing a range of resources for inmates to include: career assessments, employment preparation services, job seeking assistance nationwide, identification and linkage to community resources in inmate’s releasing area. None of the above. 9 The Reentry Sector Chief must have the ability to develop, monitor, and conduct training, technical assistance, and facilitate meetings for all institution Reentry Affairs Coordinators and other program staff involved in reentry related initiatives. This includes training and interpretation of information in the use of automated systems such as the Inmate Skills Development System, Volunteer/Contractor Information Database, NCIC, and others.&nbsp; The Reentry Sector Chief serves as the resource for his/her area assigned for other Reentry Affairs Coordinators (local, regional and national) in the Bureau of Prisons and must be able to clearly communicate a wide array of information, including technical, statistical and conceptual information to a variety of audiences (internal and external). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated meetings and presented briefings/training/presentations for a specific correctional issue, which were utilized at the national level of an agency/organization; and/or I have developed and facilitated a presentation addressing a correctional issue impacting corrections in the Federal, state and local spectrum, and provided recommendations for an improved method or procedure; and/or I have resolved an issue by negotiating with contractors or cooperative agreement employees which satisfied all partied involved. I have conducted and participated in meetings, provided presentations for internal and external participants to include executive staff in other federal, state or local agencies and/or congressional members and their staff; and/or I have presented information with local legislators or state agencies; and/or I have prepared/presented agency statements regarding programs, policy and practices to national news media or conducted interviews on sensitive issues; and/or I have presented research findings to non-subject matter experts; and/or I have trained staff on automated systems and developed specifications and written technical training manuals for non-technical users utilizing various formats such as reports, spreadsheets, graphic, presentation, memo, and publications. I have interacted with high ranking officials internal to the organization to develop and brief executive staff/upper management on complex issues/new policy recommendations; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs/presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers or local community partners. None of the above. 10 The Reentry Sector Chief must possess the ability to effectively supervise. He/she may also supervise other administrative or programs staff within the region. He/she must be able to provide clear direction for the development of reentry initiatives, assign tasks, monitor, and recognize performance of staff. He/she is responsible for the administration of reentry efforts throughout their region. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have submitted award recommendations; and/or I have counseled employees regarding job related procedures, questions, or concerns; and/or I have provided general feedback to subordinates on ongoing project(s). I have developed systems or training to guide subordinate performance and career development; and/or I have developed instructional materials/booklet to outline duty requirements and provide samples of project requirements for a major organizational function or area; and/or I have developed a leadership class where employees were cross-trained in various areas other than their specific position; and/or I have managed a multi-discipline project providing direction and assignments to other employees involved. I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).