Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to plan, organize and conduct official, public, and specialized visits and tours.** Planned, organized, and conducted official, public, and specialized visits and tours that provide information about the resources, collections, programs, and services of an organization. Answer to this question is required Planned, organized, and conducted visits, tours and/or presentations for a variety of audiences such as representatives of governments, institutions, businesses, and/or the public. Planned, organized, and conducted visits, tours and/or presentations for the general public. Conducted visits, tours and/or presentations for the general public. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide customer support services.** Provided professional service to customers and in doing so, performed the following activities: 1) worked with clients and customers to assess their needs, 2) provided information or assistance to customers, resolving their problems/expectations, 3) maintained critical knowledge about the organization, its history, and programs and/or services, 4) displayed commitment to providing quality services, 5) provided guidance and information to customers, 6) researched and responded in a timely and efficient manner to customer service requests, 7) conducted exhibition tracking and visitor density analysis, and 8) provided support to minimize interruption to customer activities or experiences. Answer to this question is required Provided professional service to customers, identified and resolved unique, unusual, challenging, and complex problems in response to customer inquiries or incidents, providing information and/or assistance and in doing so, performed ALL of the above duties. Provided professional service to customers, identified and resolved unique, unusual, challenging, and complex problems in response to customer inquiries or incidents, providing information and/or assistance and in doing so, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above duties. Provided professional service to customers, identified and resolved unique, unusual, challenging, and complex problems in response to customer inquiries or incidents, providing information and/or assistance and in doing so, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above duties. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to create written materials for the public.** Wrote and edited general and/or educational materials that translate complex subject matter into accessible, engaging, and informative educational resources for internal and external use. To include but not limited to web content, newsletters, study guides, and/or reports for various audiences. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, independently wrote and edited general and/or educational materials for internal and external use such as:web content, newsletters, study guides, and/or reports for various audiences. In a professional environment, with moderate supervision, wrote and/or edited general and/or educational materials such as: web content, newsletters, study guides, and/or reports for various audiences. In a educational environment, such as college or graduate school, wrote and/or edited general and/or scholarly materials for internal and external use such as: web content, newsletters, study guides, and/or reports for various audiences. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate effectively other than in writing.** The ability to communicate effectively in both formal and informal settings, to include a wide variety of visitors ranging from public, Office of the Librarian, Congressional Staff, Congressional Constituents, and guests of Members, Library stakeholders, visiting delegations, school groups, tour companies, visitors with disabilities, and other key audiences. Answer to this question is required Independently and regularly communicate effectively in both formal and informal settings, to include a wide variety of visitors ranging from public, Office of the Librarian, Congressional Staff, Congressional Constituents, and guests of Members, Library stakeholders, visiting delegations, school groups, tour companies, visitors with disabilities, and other key audiences. Independently and Routinely communicate effectively in both formal and informal settings, to include a wide variety of visitors ranging from public, visiting delegations, school groups, tour companies, visitors with disabilities, and other key audiences. Independently and occasionally communicate effectively in both formal and informal settings. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to present information orally through briefings and other presentations. Conveyed information orally through briefings and other presentations in both planned and unplanned situations in order to educate customers or peers. Answer to this question is required Independently and frequently made structured and unstructured presentations to customers or peers within or outside of an organization/agency to educate or inform. Independently and routinely made structured and unstructured presentations to customers or peers within or outside of an organization/agency to educate or inform. Independently or under supervision, occasionally made structured presentations to staff within an organization/agency. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Collaborates with subject matter experts and staff across the institution to ensure historical, educational, and programmatic accuracy of content and materials. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely collaborated with subject matter experts and staff across the institution to ensure historical, educational, and programmatic accuracy of content and materials. As a primary job responsibility with limited supervison, collaborated with subject matter experts and staff across the institution to ensure historical, educational, and programmatic accuracy of content and materials. With direct supervision, collaborated with subject matter experts and staff across the institution to ensure historical, educational, and programmatic accuracy of content and materials. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).