Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service. Examples of specialized experience include: 1) Protecting the confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information through the selection of appropriate controls or mitigation based on enterprise need; 2) Crafting policy and procedure documents to meet complex enterprise needs related to the interaction of law and policy; 3) Experience overseeing an organizational privacy program; 4) Assessing and managing organizational compliance with Federal laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection; 4) Managing and implementing privacy workforce planning, training, and awareness requirements, with a focus on privacy roles and responsibilities; and 5) Communicating complex information, concepts, or ideas in a confident and well-organized manner through verbal, written, and/or visual means. I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 If you qualified based on specialized experience, you must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies as defined: 1) Attention to Detail: takes a thorough approach to perform work and thoroughly reviews and proofreads various IT related data/information; 2) Customer Service: works with customers to assess IT needs, provide expert technical information or assistance, resolve fairly complex or non-routine problems, and committed to providing quality IT products and services; 3) Oral Communication: expresses technical information via oral presentation (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, and taking into account the audience and nature of the information; and 4) Problem Solving - identifies IT related problems using a variety of materials or sources, gathers and applies technical information to determine accuracy and relevance to complex problems, and form IT policies or programs that will apply to previously unresolved problems. Answer to this question is required My IT-related experience demonstrates each of the four competencies as defined above. I do not possess the IT-related experience as defined above. 4 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your IT-related experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Evaluate your experience managing an organizational privacy program. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 14 Evaluate your experience with developing, implementing, and maintaining an organization's privacy breach response policies and plans, and coordinating the organization's privacy breach response efforts. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 15 Evaluate your experience implementing and managing privacy workforce planning, training, and awareness requirements - with a focus on privacy roles and responsibilities. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 16 Describe your experience providing privacy guidance to application developers, data management specialists, network specialists, and others involved in the planning, design, implementation, and maintenance of organization applications and information systems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 17 Evaluate your ability to give oral presentations to convey information and technical/non-technical details. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment using various communication tools such as slide presentations, briefing charts, and /or graphics to a variety of groups on a variety of topics. I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment using various communication tools such as slide presentations, briefing charts, and /or graphics to small groups that are familiar with the topic. I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment to small groups that are familiar with the topic. I have given oral presentations as part of my coursework in an educational setting. I have not given oral presentations in an educational or professional work environment. 18 Are you familiar with applicable OMB, NIST, FISMA, Privacy Act of 1974, E-Government, and FIPS Laws, regulations, and guidance pertaining to Federal IT Security and Privacy? Answer to this question is required Yes 18.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 19 Evaluate your ability to develop policy, planning, and procedure documents. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 20 Evaluate your experience performing Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA) and System or Records Notices (SORN). Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 21 Evaluate your experience conducting and documenting assessments of the risk of harm to individuals potentially affected by a privacy information breach. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 22 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 24 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 25 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).