Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications. I also have at least one year of that experience that was at or above the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service, or its equivalent with state or local government, the private sector, or nongovernmental organization. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently serving under a career Senior Executive Service appointment, eligible for reinstatement into the Senior Executive Service, or have you successfully completed a Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program approved by OPM? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Current SES Career Appointees, SES Reinstatement Eligibles, and OPM Candidate Development Program graduates are not required to complete the Executive Core Qualifications listed below; however, you must address the mandatory technical competencies. The Core Focus of the ECQs are cross-cutting and should be addressed within your two-page resume.&nbsp; The following are the foundation for success in each of the ECQs below: Constitutional fidelity and service to the American people; Efficient resource use, cost-saving, process modernization; Technical excellence and high-quality performance; Team leadership, accountability, performance culture; and Meeting and exceeding mission-aligned goals. ECQ 1 - This core qualification encompasses the ability to uphold the Constitution and American governing ideals - a foundation for federal leadership. ECQ 2 - This core qualification involves the ability to demonstrate effective resource management, budget discipline, waste reduction, and leveraging technology or process improvements. ECQ 3 - This core qualification stresses the delivering of exceptional quality work through technical skill, knowledge, and reliable performance. ECQ 4 - This ECQ involves the ability to inspire and guide teams toward mission objectives while fostering accountability, performance, and adaptability. ECQ 5 - This core qualification involves consistently delivering outcomes aligned with organizational goals and the broader mission set by leadership. MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS:&nbsp; All candidates must address the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications within their two-page resume. Demonstrated executive-level experience directing complex criminal, civil, and administrative investigations involving fraud, waste, and abuse against federal programs, regulatory compliance, conflicts of interests, and whistleblower retaliation.&nbsp; Experience overseeing OIG investigations related to fraud, theft, antitrust violations, and other misconduct against federal financial assistance programs (to include subsidies, loans, contracts, and grants) is highly desirable.&nbsp; Ability to supervise investigative staff, coordinate with prosecutors and law enforcement partners, manage high-visibility matters, and debrief an Inspector General or senior leadership on investigative findings and risk mitigation strategies is required. Demonstrated knowledge of and experience in overseeing or supporting investigations involving complex fraud schemes, money laundering, and or national security.&nbsp; Experience coordinating with federal law enforcement or national security partners is required. Demonstrated knowledge of the mission and goals of an Office of Inspector General and demonstrated ability to provide strategic leadership and operational oversight of an investigative program within an Office of Inspector General or comparable oversight organization.&nbsp; Experience developing and implementing investigative policies, ensuring compliance with the Inspector General Act and applicable federal and CIGIE standards, managing resources and budget execution, and implementing internal controls and quality assurance mechanisms is required.&nbsp; Proven ability to communicate complex investigative matters to high level internal and external stakeholders with sound judgement and integrity is a requirement. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).