Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [73814] In response to question number 30210, please answer the following questions. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience researching land records, such as deeds, tax records, and chain of titles, to determine initial boundary locations and ownership and experience utilizing Computer-Aided-Drafting and Design (CADD) software to develop right-of-way plans and preparing property descriptions using methods such as the Public Land Survey System, metes and bounds, or station and offsets and experience assisting in locating utilities, identifying utility conflicts, and drafting utility agreements in conformance with applicable policies and guidelines. 2.1 [73740] In approximately 500 words or less, how do you handle the transition from raw field notes and points to defining accurate property boundaries for a ROW plan? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73741]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, Describe a time you had to coordinate with external stakeholders, such as utility owners or property owners, to resolve a conflict between existing infrastructure and proposed design footprints. What steps did you take to ensure the final project footprint accurately reflected these "on-the-ground" realities?&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73742]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, provide an example of a time you identified an error in a "Notice of Intent to Acquire" or a boundary calculation and how you corrected it to ensure project compliance.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 [73739] In approximately 500 words or less,&nbsp; describe how your education prepared you for Land Surveying and Right-of-Way as they relate to researching various land records such as deeds, tax records, and chain of titles to determine initial boundary locations and ownership of public and private lands and utilities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 [73739] In approximately 500 words or less,&nbsp; describe how your education prepared you for Land Surveying and Right-of-Way as they relate to researching various land records such as deeds, tax records, and chain of titles to determine initial boundary locations and ownership of public and private lands and utilities. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73740] In approximately 500 words or less, how do you handle the transition from raw field notes and points to defining accurate property boundaries for a ROW plan? Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73741]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, Describe a time you had to coordinate with external stakeholders, such as utility owners or property owners, to resolve a conflict between existing infrastructure and proposed design footprints. What steps did you take to ensure the final project footprint accurately reflected these "on-the-ground" realities?&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.4 [73742]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, provide an example of a time you identified an error in a "Notice of Intent to Acquire" or a boundary calculation and how you corrected it to ensure project compliance.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [73755] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent technical experience performing computations of field survey data to reconcile field evidence with recorded documents to develop legally supportable boundary maps, plats, and plans, experience providing professional advice regarding the location of boundaries, interpretation of documents that vest real property interests, and liability for the cost of relocating utilities, and experience applying the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Uniform Act) and evaluating real property appraisals to ensure acquisition projects are developed in compliance with federal regulations. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 [73751]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, describe your experience applying the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (Uniform Act) and Titles 23/49 of the CFR? Provide an example of a project where you had to ensure a State DOT or local agency remained in compliance with these federal regulations.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.2 [73752]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, walk us through your process for using CADD software to develop legally supportable right-of-way plans, specifically how you handle the reduction of field survey data to determine property boundaries.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 2.3 [73753]&nbsp; In approximately 500 words or less, &nbsp;how do you balance the technical requirements of Land Services (ROW/Utilities) with the competing priorities of Project Managers and Environmental staff during the NEPA process?&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. Answer to this question is required I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 7 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 10 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 11 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).