Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [56489] Select the activities that best describe your experience communicating with individuals from diverse backgrounds and levels in the organization. Answer to this question is required I communicate with co-workers daily. I advise co-workers and managers daily, on matters related to my work products. I communicate with colleagues, managers, and customers outside of my organization daily. I have limited experience communicating with individuals from diverse backgrounds and levels in the organization. None of the above. 3 [52269] Select the response that best describes your experience maintaining a clean and safe working environment to avoid injury and minimize risk of personnel accidents. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I am regarded as expert in performing this task, and/or have trained others (or am consulted by others) on how to do this task. 4 [6701] Select the statement that best describes your ability to maintain composure during stressful encounters with difficult or angry people. Answer to this question is required I have often demonstrated great self control in the face of harsh opposition on the job in positions such as club bouncer, security guard or police officer. I have often demonstrated great composure dealing with irate customers on the job in a customer service, retail, or similar environment. I have often exhibited a cool demeanor in a white-collar atmosphere where tempers and tensions can be high. I have plenty of personal experience staying composed during heated disagreements outside of the workplace. I have little experience dealing with difficult people. None of the above. 5 [5159] Select the type(s) of boat/vessel propulsion with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Single water jet Twin water jet Single screw Twin screw Outboard None of the above 6 [5105] Select option that best describes your level of experience operating diesel and/or gasoline driven watercraft. Answer to this question is required I have never operated a diesel or gasoline driven watercraft. I have little to no experience in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft, and will require direct supervision. I have some experience in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft, but will require additional supervision. I have experience with operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft and require no supervision. I am very comfortable, experienced, and am often looked to for guidance in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft. 7 [4965] From the following list, select all shift work statements that apply. Answer to this question is required I can work a continuous 18-hour shift. I can work extra hours/days as needed. I can work rotating day and night 12-hour shifts. I am available to work on short-notice (12 hours or less). None of the above. 8 [52109]Select the response that best describes your job experience keeping job work areas, tools, and equipment neat, clean, and in order? Make sure to clearly describe this experience in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have not been trained in or performed this work. I have other related experience, education, or training. I have carried out tasks assigned to me by higher level workers to maintain order and cleanliness of my work place or job site and to clean and maintain tools and equipment according to their instructions. As a member of a work crew, team, or unit I was responsible for cleaning and maintaining the machines, tools and equipment assigned to me for use in performing my work. I followed instructions and met standards set by higher level employees for using materials in completing the work. I have been responsible for meeting standards of orderliness and cleanliness in jobs that I have held. I have carried out a series of tasks to assure proper placement, counting and control of supplies, and I cleaned assigned machines, tools and equipment on a regularly scheduled basis. 9 [8961] Please select all that apply. I have work experience in and am able to: Answer to this question is required Work in uncomfortable or awkward positions (bending, climbing, crouching). Work pulling or lifting a workload up to 40 pounds. Work in extreme in temperatures. Work at various elevations to include extreme heights. Work standing for long periods of time. Work shift-work (rotating shifts). None of the above. 10 [1104] In your experience have you worked in an environment where the work priorities were constantly changing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [989] I have work experience in and am able to: Answer to this question is required Work from the deck of a barge or workboat. Work in uncomfortable positions (bending, climbing, crouching). Work pulling or lifting a workload up to 100 pounds. Work over, on, or near water. Work at various elevations to include extreme heights. Work standing for long periods of time. Work shift-work (rotating shifts). Work as a trades helper/laborer (electrical, mechanical, etc.) Work as a marine helper, assisting with navigational aids work. Operate small workboats. None of the above 12 [55795] As a water craft operator are you able to adjust to changes quickly and smoothly while continuing to work safely? If yes, please provide some examples in your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 [55792] Select the condition type(s) in which you have operated a boat or vessel. Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required Close maneuvering amongst larger vessels Making landings in various current and wind conditions High wind Rain Fog Choppy water After dark None of the above 14 [55790] Select the navigation and/or communication equipment you have experience using. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Radar Loran Satellite Navigation Global Positioning System (GPS) Navigational charts Depth Finder Ham Radio Marine Radio Citizen's Band/Single Side Band radio None of the above 15 [55789] Select the response that best describes your knowledge using navigation and communication equipment. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have no experience using navigation and communication equipment. I have training in the use of navigation and/or communication equipment, but have little to no practical experience using the equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication AND navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision as a regular and recurring part of my duties. I am very comfortable and experienced using communication and navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision and am often looked to for guidance or asked to train others on the use of both types of equipment. 16 [55779] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) Navigational Rules ("Rules of the Road"). Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience with the USCG Rules of the Road. I have had training on the USCG Rules of the Road, but have had little to no practical experience applying them. I consider my level of knowledge as a Beginner. I am familiar with and have some experience with the USCG Rules of the Road, but prefer to have guidance and supervision. I consider my level of knowledge as Average. I am comfortable with the USCG Rules of the Road and consider my level of knowledge as better than average. I require little to no guidance when applying the USCG Rules of the Road. I consider myself an expert on the USCG Rules of the Road and am often consulted by others for guidance and/or supervision. 17 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 18 [4802] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers. I have described rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have made presentations and/or providing classroom training. My written communication skills include internal/external correspondence; reports include financial reports, interpretive analysis, policy guidance. I have written documents and/or correspondence clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively for varied audiences. None of the above. 19 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 20 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 21 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 24 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 25 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 28 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 29 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 30 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 30.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 30.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 30.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).