Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of preservation techniques for library collection materials.** Applied knowledge of preservation and conservation techniques specializing in microform collections. In doing so, conducting surveys, applying complex treatments, and crafting custom housing like specialized boxes, folders, and polyester encapsulation. Managing collection processing across the Library to include physical labeling, barcoding, security stamping, and updating bibliographic records with in the Integrated Library System. Answer to this question is required Applied broad knowledge of specialized preservation and conservation techniques for microform collections by conducting condition surveys, executing complex treatments, and fabricating custom protective enclosures. Managed library collection processing, including physical labeling, barcoding, security stamping, and maintaining bibliographic records in the Integrated Library System. Applied general knowledge of specialized preservation and conservation techniques for microform collections. With limited assistance conducting condition surveys, executing complex treatments, and fabricating custom protective enclosures. Managed library collection processing, including physical labeling, barcoding, security stamping, and or maintaining bibliographic records. Applied basic knowledge of preservation and conservation techniques for microform collections to carry out basic repetitive tasks such as placing collection materials in standard housings or inspecting library, museum or other collection items and reporting damaged materials or housings to a supervisor or manager. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to identify, analyze and correct problems with library materials.** Ability to search library collections and resolve collection-related problems/issues, including: 1) searching collections storage and processing areas for items not readily found due to labeling, cataloging or other problems impacting retrieval; 2) making necessary notations to reflect needed or recommended changes; 3) performing complex searches to identify the relationship of pieces in hand to the collection as a whole; 4) utilizing an in-depth knowledge of an integrated library system, correcting many discrepancies on site; 5) forwarding items and notes to the appropriate locations to correct the online record; and 6) supporting inventory management programs by providing quality control of contractors and Library staff. Answer to this question is required Independently identified, analyzed and corrected problems with library materials, deciding appropriate course of action to execute work assignments and meet critical deadlines, and performing ALL of the above. With minimal supervision, identified, analyzed and corrected problems with library materials, deciding appropriate course of action to execute work assignments and meet critical deadlines, and performing FOUR (4) of the above. Under close supervision, identified, analyzed and corrected problems with library materials, deciding appropriate course of action to execute work assignments and meet critical deadlines, and performing THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to perform inventory control** Ability to perform inventory control for an agency or organization to include: 1) investigating catalog search requests containing inaccurate and updateing existing cataloging records to correct errors; 2) conducting searches for items in online catalogs, createing new holding or item records when missing, and developing basic descriptive cataloging records for newly acquired materials; 3) linking physical barcodes to bibliographic records to generate accurate inventory entries, constructing summary holdings, assigning custodial locations, and marking duplicate records for deletion; 4) gathering data and prepareing statistical reports; 5) drafting and updateing technical procedural manuals, memos; and 6) using computer applications to regularly update catalog entries in both online systems and manual files. Answer to this question is required Independently performed inventory control for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed ALL of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, performed inventory control for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Under minimal supervision, inventory control for an agency or organization. In doing so, completed TWO (2) of the above tasks. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained relationships among a variety of stakeholders (e.g., co-workers, supervisors/managers, vendors, clients, customers). Answer to this question is required Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff, and the public. Independently collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff and the public. With minimal supervision, collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors and staff. With minimal supervision, collaborated primarily with internal stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).