Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Department of Commerce Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 0 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Privacy Act Statement Authority:&nbsp; 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(a), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(e)(1) and (e)(3), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b) and (c) Purpose:&nbsp; &nbsp;The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) hosts the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) which provides an opportunity for the NIST laboratories to encourage outstanding undergraduate students to pursue careers in science and technology. The Summer High School Intern Program (SHIP) is a NIST-wide summer intern program for students who will have finished their junior or senior year of high school by the start of the program and are interested in scientific research only. The Summer Institute for Middle School Science Teachers is a two-week workshop for middle school science teachers featuring hands-on activities, lectures, tours, and visits with NIST scientists and engineers in their laboratories.&nbsp;This information collection will serve as the application and submission process for these NIST Academic Programs. Routine Uses: &nbsp; NIST will use the information collected to perform the requisite reviews of the applications to determine eligibility, and to meet programmatic requirements. Disclosure of this information is also subject to all the published routine uses as identified in the Privacy Act System of Records Notices:&nbsp; NIST-1: NIST Associates.&nbsp; Disclosure: &nbsp; Furnishing this information is voluntary. When you submit the form, you are indicating your voluntary consent for NIST to use of the information you submit for the purpose stated. 1 Please provide your full middle name. Please enter NMN if you do not have one. Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Where is your current residence (city, state)? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please provide your emergency contact information (e.g., Parent Name, Address, and phone number) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 What is the name of your current high school? Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 What is the location (city, state) of your current high school? Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 What is your current status in high school? (Note: You must be a Junior, Senior or recent graduate to be considered for this program.) Answer to this question is required I have recently graduated from high school. Junior Senior None of the above. 7 What is your graduation date? (Expected graduation date is acceptable if you have not yet graduated.) Answer to this question is required 8 I acknowledge that I understand that I must be a Junior, Senior or recent graduate to be considered for this program. I understand that the transcript I submit must indicate I am in 11th grade or a junior, I am in 12th grade or be a senior or show I have recently graduated. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please indicate your weighted GPA Answer to this question is required 10 What is your unweighted GPA? Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Select your 1st choice of NIST laboratory you would like to apply to: Answer to this question is required Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL) Engineering Laboratory (EL) Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) Material Measurement Laboratory (MML) NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR) Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML) 12 Please describe your research interests.&nbsp; (This answer can be a copy of part of your personal statement.) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Please indicate if you have programming experience in the following computer languages: Answer to this question is required C C++ Fortran Java LabVIEW Perl Python Other None 14 Please list any additional programming languages you have experience in, besides those listed in the previous question. (Enter NA if not applicable to you.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Do you have any experience with specialized software? Answer to this question is required Mathematica Matlab Origin Other None 16 Please list other specialized software that you have experience in, besides the list in the previous question. (Please enter NA if not applicable to you.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Do you have any experience running computer commands using the "command line" (i.e., Linux terminal or Mac terminal)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Did you participate in SHIP last year? Answer to this question is required Yes 18.1 If so, what was the name of your mentor? Maximum length of 250 characters. No 19 If you are directly applying with a specific mentor, please provide their name.&nbsp; (This is not required, please enter NA if not applicable to you.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Please acknowledge by selecting "Yes" you understand the SHIP program will be in-person and you will be required to report in-person at the campus for which you are selected. &nbsp;(Note: The SHIP program will only be accepting applications from local residents for in-person internships.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Did you review the list of required documents found within the Required Documents&nbsp; section of the vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 I understand that a complete application submission includes two (2) letters of recommendation submitted by the closing of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 23 I confirm that the information provided in this application and supporting documents are true, complete, and accurate. If my application is found to contain false information, my application will be removed from consideration for an internship. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Agency Financial Report Comment Policy Commerce Archive EEO Policy FOIA GobiernoUSA.gov Improper Payments Information Quality Inspector General No Fear Act PLAIN Language Privacy Policy USA.gov Whistleblower Protection Whitehouse.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).