Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade in the Federal service that provided the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position successfully. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in using spreadsheets, word processing, and accounts payable systems? Answer to this question is required I have experience using an automated accounting system, such as PeopleSoft, to perform accounts receivable services. I have experience using an automated system to perform accounting services. I have experience using Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word or automated databases to perform data entry. I have formal training in using Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word or automated databases. None of the above. 3 Have you ever been required to input, monitor, and maintain data in several computerized systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you been trained on the use of any automated accounting system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you analyzed transaction documents for adequacy and accuracy of data? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you monitored, controlled, and validated accounting transactions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you ever processed data relating to general ledger transactions, accounts receivables, and other associating data entry functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience with proprietary and budgetary accounts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience reconciling fund balances? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed when balancing an organization’s accounts? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received, reviewed, and processed accounting transactions. I have received, reviewed, and processed requests for the establishment of additional accounting records. I have reviewed complex documents to verify accounting data and mathematical accuracy. I have prepared and processed statistical reports. I have not done any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed relating to accounting processes and procedures? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified discrepancies, determined source of errors, and prepared the necessary adjustments. I have reviewed automated reports and verified information. I have performed research on questionable billings. I have prepared monthly reports and reconciliations for submission to the appropriate staff. I have processed and prepared daily transactions to support the year end close-out. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Do you have experience analyzing a variety of accounts to determine the need for adjustments and reconciliation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following tasks have you performed when analyzing accounting transactions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made corrections as necessary during the check and balance control review. I have performed a daily reconciliation of all documents to ensure that they are accounted for and processed according to established procedures. I have verified that transaction documents were coded and accurately reflected on computerized and manual reports. I have not done any of the above tasks. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally and in writing with a variety of individuals involving the explanation of procurement procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 15 Which of the following responses reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor?s signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people?s work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience providing customer service to the public and/or staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received telephone calls, inquiries, or requests for information; and determined referral or provided information to caller. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems, and taken corrective action. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members or personally handling matters not requiring technical knowledge. I have used customer service skills to work with individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have worked effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have independently followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 17 Which of the following responses reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have composed correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) but have not done so as part of the job. I have occasionally composed business correspondence or reports (e.g., letters, emails, memoranda, etc. ) as part of the job. I have routinely prepared draft documents and/or correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions as part of my work. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.