Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Basic Entry Requirement: Choose the one answer that best describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate or higher level degree from an accredited college or university in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that INCLUDED 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. I have education equivalent to one of the majors shown in Choice 1 above that INCLUDED at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, PLUS appropriate experience OR additional education. My education and experience does not match the basic qualification requirements described above. Note: All applicants WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. 2 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required IN ADDITION to meeting the basic entry qualification requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. I do not meet the experience requirement described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience in transboundary water quality and water management issues, or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education related to transboundary water quality and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of transboundary water quality and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basins. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct programs related to transboundary water quality and water management issues, or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. I have applied this experience to a variety of projects and programs, including presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct complex programs and develop corresponding recommendations related to transboundary water quality issues, and water management issues or closely related fields in the Great Lakes Basin. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 2 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques and I have experience in negotiating. I have no formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have experience in negotiating. I have no experience, formal training, or education in negotiation. 3 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience 4 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience in identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions? Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in analyzing complex problems. I have participated with others in projects involving the application of organizational, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied organizational, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems. I have performed as team leader in applying new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems. 5 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to exercise initiative. Answer to this question is required I have recommended actions to achieve a benefit or advantage. I have designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have participated in a group designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have developed innovative solutions and non-traditional approaches to identify opportunities for improvement in job performance which contribute to overall organizational effectiveness. None of the above. 6 Select the response that best describes your level of experience in generating reports. Answer to this question is required I have drafted reports to evaluate and support a specified plan I have edited reports to evaluate and support a specified plan I have developed and produced comprehensive reports to evaluate and support a specified plan I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in performing this task. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 7 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to facilitate communication through consensus building and teamwork. Answer to this question is required I have served as a team leader working collaboratively to resolve problems quickly and constructively, examining the options and providing sensitivity to bring all stakeholders on board to a common position. I have assisted team members and customers reach agreement and applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to human resources problems and/or conflicts. I have led teams through differences and promoted discussion of divergent views to reach operational agreement or consensus on issues. I have worked in groups and teams; conducting briefings and other meetings; gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; anticipates issues and facilitates win-win situations. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience in transboundary water issues? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education related to transboundary water issues. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of transboundary water issues. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct programs related to transboundary water issues. I have applied this experience to a variety of projects and programs, including presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct complex programs and develop corresponding recommendations related to transboundary water issues. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management. None of the above. 10 Choose the statements that describe your experience drafting written material. Answer to this question is required I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed and edited reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, adherence to requirements, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific, or industrial journals / newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 11 Please select the response that best describes your experience with developing reports. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed, classified, categorized, and prioritized data and determined appropriate actions I have conducted extensive research and prepared technical briefings I have conducted extensive data analysis, prepared comprehensive reports, and from this established recommendations for consideration. None of the above 12 From the following list of problem-solving activities, please identify those you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Identified a problem and its cause. Anticipated a problem and implemented a procedure to avoid the problem. Recommended an improvement in procedures with options for implementation. Worked closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. None of the above. 13 With which of the following types of officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government agencies Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 14 Experience working with foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with governments and non-governmental organizations. I have managed projects requiring coordination with the U.S. government and non-governmental organizations. I have worked on U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental committees and work groups. I have lead and coordinated programs with U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental organizations. None of the above 15 Select the statement that best describes your experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. Answer to this question is required As part of my regular duties, I lead activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. As part of my regular duties, I participate in activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. I occasionally participated in activities involving diverse groups and coordinating technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations; however, this is not a part of my regular duties. I have training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I do not have experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. 16 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management: Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. I have directed teams of experts in presenting sensitive/complicated information to the most senior levels of government and private organizations. None of the above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 17 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 18 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 19 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 20 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 21 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.