Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select one choice that BEST describes your experience managing Foreign Affairs issues with US Members of Congress: Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. 2 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency policy coordination. I have work experience representing my agency in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 3 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience developing and presenting briefings to high-level agency officials on foreign policy issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 6 Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing, or administering an important program and/or significant program segment: Answer to this question is required I have issued technically authoritative interpretations and decisions regarding laws, regulations and program policies relating to the program. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies, and goals. I have set the short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work. I have set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws. I have developed and approved program procedures and practices. I have promoted program(s) and provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials. None of the above. 7 How would you describe the extent of your knowledge and experience devising and implementing systems to monitor and evaluate programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in devising and implementing systems to monitor or evaluate programs. I have education or training in devising and implementing systems to monitor and evaluate programs, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have devised and implemented systems to monitor and evaluate programs as a regular part of a job under supervision by a manager, or senior employee. I have significant skill and experience in devising and implementing systems to monitor and evaluate programs as a regular part of a job with minimal supervision. I am highly skilled and experienced in devising and implementing systems to monitor and evaluate programs, and have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 10 Select the personnel administration related activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Interviews and makes selections of candidates for non-supervisory positions, including staff employees, work leader, team leader, or project manager positions. Interviews and makes selections for candidates for supervisory positions. Reviews and approves routine and non-routine (e.g., unusual or costly) requests for training related to employees of the unit. Oversees the development of training programs for staff and/or supervisors of the unit. Provides overall administrative direction for employees of the unit, including approving expenses (e.g., travel and overtime). Recognizes outstanding work through awards. Reviews and approves disciplinary actions involving non-supervisory subordinates. Reviews and/or recommends changes in position classification, subject to approval by higher level officials, supervisors, or others. Recommends promotions and reassignments involving staff or subordinate supervisors. Reviews evaluations of non-supervisory employees rated by subordinate supervisors. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.