Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 GS-14: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-14: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select all in which you have demonstrated your ability to think critically: Answer to this question is required Developed a strategic plan. Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan. Project Management. Determined objectives to improve processes. Budget preparation. Set priorities in order to deliver results. Developed performance measurements. Identified workforce needs. Examined policy issues with a long-term perspective. Prioritized to meet deadlines. None of the above. 2 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 3 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action None of the above 4 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with requirements analysis and development? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the requirements analysis process. I have knowledge, education or training in the requirements analysis process, but no experience. I have performed requirements analysis tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project. I have lead the requirements analysis phase on an IT project. I have lead the requirements analysis phase on an enterprise IT project across multiple stakeholder groups. I have lead multiple requirements analysis phases for concurrent systems development projects across multiple stakeholder groups. 5 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with, Information Technology requirements gathering, analysis and verification? Answer to this question is required I have independently participated in multiple requirements analysis phases for concurrent projects with multiple stakeholder groups. I have education or training in methodologies used to perform requirements analysis. However, I have not yet applied these skills on the job. I have independently participated in requirements gathering, analysis and verification on individual projects with more than one stakeholder group. I have performed requirements gathering, analysis and verification tasks under the direction of a supervisor or more senior personnel. I have no education, training or experience with requirements gathering, analysis or verification processes. 6 With which of the following IT topics do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Cloud implementations and development Business Process Automation (BPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Advanced simulations Software architecture Enterprise architecture SecDevOps Agile software development Secure Software Development Life Cycle (SSDLC) Application security Static code analysis Dynamic application security testing UX / UI Open source Source control Large-scale application and/or data migrations Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) integration Mobile application development Data analysis SQL queries Technical documentation None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best describes your experience organizing and prioritizing projects? Answer to this question is required I have developed priorities, project schedules, and maintained deadlines for team projects. I have gathered requirements for a project, organized them logically, and determined their level of importance to the completion of the project. I have juggled multiple tasks keeping in mind the importance of each task. I have not organized or prioritized projects. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to analyze and prioritize competing and/or complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues, identified risk, determined priorities, and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 10 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written analytical technical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical technical reports for external audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefing materials for program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.