Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience identifying potential problems in employee behavior or performance and taking appropriate action? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive demonstrated experience in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience reviewing the work of others (for example, peers, subordinates) to verify operational and regulatory compliance? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience providing on-the-job training and developmental assignments to staff members? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience assessing program requirements and operations to make recommendations for program improvements. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review. I have extensive experience in this task/competency and am regularly asked to provide assistance training, or technical guidance on this task/competency. 6 Which of the following best describes your level of experience promoting or developing and maintaining good working relationship with key individuals or groups? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 7 Which of the following statements describe your experience leading or supervising? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have review subordinate’s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employee. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated employees. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. None of the above 8 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience evaluating, monitoring, or ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert. I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience implementing new or revised laws, regulations, polices, standards, or procedures within the Human Resources Office? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert. I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 10 Do you have experience researching and interpreting employment and/or classification regulations (i.e., 5 Code of Federal Regulations(CFR), Classification Standards, Qualification Standards, etc.) for managers and determining best approach to help meet agency needs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience developing position descriptions? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert. I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience conducting job analyses with Management for recruitment actions? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert. I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience applying knowledge of federal human resources (HR) laws, regulations, principles, and practices to recruitment and placement programs to provide advice and policy interpretation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency. I have performed this task/competency, either in training or on the job under close supervision. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review. I have extensive experience in this task/competency and I am regularly asked to provide assistance training, or technical guidance on this task/competency. 14 Which of the following statement(s) describe the staffing and recruiting experience that you have performed on a regular and, recurring basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no staffing experience I have set pay on new hires and promotions. I have provided guidance on and assisted an organization or hiring manager in developing recruitment strategies. I have developed questions for automated recruitment systems. I received formal training or education in staffing and recruiting. I have educated hiring managers and others on various hiring flexibilities and non-competitive appointing authorities. I have consulted with managers regarding succession planning and staffing plans I have conducted interviews and/or been an HR Representative on an interview panel I have developed vacancy announcements for competitive and excepted service positions I have prepared job analysis I have reviewed and approved rating/crediting plans I am DEU certified. I have overseen DEU operations. I have conducted DEU audits. 15 With which of the following recruitment and staffing hiring authorities do you have experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Delegated Examining Merit Promotion Category Rating Pathways Program Peace Corp Schedule A for People with Disabilities VRA/VEOA Direct Hire Recruitment/Relocation Incentives I do not have experience using any of the authorities listed above 16 Which of the following automated staffing and classification systems have you used to create, review and/or approve vacancy announcements, certificates of eligibles, and classification requests. &nbsp;(proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system functionality/capabilities on a regular basis). (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Monster Government Solutions Avue OPM USA Staffing Quick Classification HR Connect Resumix Other automated HR staffing and/or classification system. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements demonstrate your highest level of experience applying or developing policy, guidance, or procedures? Answer to this question is required I have adhered to policies, guidance, or procedures outlined in operations manuals and seek assistant from higher level staff when needed. I have interpreted written policies, guidance, or procedures for employees and managers with minimal direction. I have revised existing policies, guidance, or procedures for higher level approval and consult with my supervisor or higher-level employees if I have any questions. I have created new policies in response to new directives or management directions, preparing them minimal guidance and submitting for higher level approval. I have individually or as the lead of a working group led the development of new policies in response to new directives or management directions, incorporating feedback from subject matter experts and preparing the policy and submitting it for higher level approval. I do not have this type of experience. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience in developing and conducting training for managers, supervisors, and employees on classification and position management laws, policies, regulations, and principles used in applying classification standards?. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, have trained others to perform this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 19 Which of the following source material(s) listed below have you routinely utilized when researching Human Resources policies, procedures, and practices?(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required US Office of Personnel Management Guide to Processing Personnel Actions. US Office of Personnel Management Qualification Standards. US Office of Personnel Management Classification Standards. Department/Agency/Organizational guidelines. Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR). US Office of Personnel Management website. Veterans Guide. Merit Promotion Policy and Procedures Plan. Delegated Examining Operations Manual (DEU). Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptrollers General Decisions None of the above 20 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience responding to stakeholder inquiries related to recruitment strategies and functions?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency. I have performed this task/competency, either in training or on the job under close supervision. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review. I have extensive experience in this task/competency, and I am regularly asked to provide a training, or technical guidance on this task/competency. 21 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience conducting presentations or briefings to a variety of audiences? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have a fair amount of experience performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert. I am able to train or assist others in the performance of this task, and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. 22 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience providing advice and consultative services to ensure that managers are provided with viable options for filling open positions (e.g., career-ladder positions and special organizational hiring programs or initiatives). Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency. I have performed this task/competency, either in training or on the job under close supervision. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review. I have extensive experience in this task/competency an am regularly asked to provide assistance training, or technical guidance on this task/competency. 23 Which of the following describes your written communication skill in communicating programmatic goals in a diverse organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience in preparing written reports and documentation for a diverse audience including higher management. I have experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, policy guidance, operating procedures, and recommendations to staff and my supervisor. I have routinely written reports and memoranda on behalf of a committee or group of individuals which may involve explanation of policies, procedures, and/or recommendations. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals. I have experience writing drafts of reports, memoranda, policy, procedures, and/or recommendations for my supervisor. I have made recommendations to my supervisor or higher management regarding changes in draft reports written by others. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a written public inquiry, specialized audience, or wider distribution. I have written papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by my supervisor and/or higher management. I have prepared clear and concise correspondence for internal inquiries. None of the above. 24 Which of the following responses describe your experience applying innovative techniques to resolve complex staffing and employment issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified staffing and employment problem areas through situational or survey analysis and have devised and implemented recommendations for correction. I have identified and implemented a new way to use a special hiring authority within my organization. I have analyzed the way hiring processes are conducted and recommended significant changes to policies or practices. I have successfully integrated staffing or employment programs with agency programs to support diversity initiatives. I have participated on agency-wide committees or groups to address challenging outreach, recruitment or marketing problems. I have been part of a workforce planning team that identified competencies, competency gaps, or devised staffing solutions to close competency gaps. None of the above. 25 Which of the following best describes your experience creating management tools, dashboards, metrics, etc. to provide senior management with a mechanism for tracking statistical date (such as diversity data, science and animal-related publications, revenue generating prospects, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have experience creating management tools, dashboards, metrics, etc. to provide senior management with a mechanism for tracking statistical date (such as diversity data, science and animal-related publications, revenue generating prospects, etc.). I have experience creating management tools, dashboards, metrics, etc. I have experience creating management tools. I do not have related experience. 26 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of implementing a strategic plan and ensuring alignment with organizational goals?. Answer to this question is required I have played a leadership role in and have an expert knowledge of the processes required to develop an organizational-wide strategic plan in human resources. I have played a leadership role in developing the input to a strategic plan for a thematic area of a strategic plan in human resources. I have provided inputs to a strategic planning process in human resources. I have provided inputs to a strategic planning process in an area other than human resources. I do not have experience implementing a strategic plan and ensuring alignment with organizational goals. 27 In the area of collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data which of the following have you done? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Obtained compiled, and summarized narrative information and quantitative data for multiple sources. Analyzed data to identify anomalies and trends. Analyzed data to assess program or project effectiveness. Prepared policy recommendations based on my analysis of data. I do not have experience collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.