Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have scored psychological tests and written results summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments; and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have conducted interviews utilizing a structured interview assessment instrument on psychiatric inpatients; and/or I have administered neuropsychological tests to hospital patients and summarized their results; and/or I have administered and scored psychological testing instruments to research subjects in a validation study or any other research project. None of the above. 6 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions and his/her use within the context of a formal treatment program.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted psychotherapy with individuals with a sexual offense history at a clinic for persons with sexual disorders; and/or I have co-facilitated treatment groups in a program for persons with eating disorders; and/or I have co-facilitated a treatment team on a behavior management unit for disruptive or violent psychiatric patients. I have supervised therapists in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have served as the supervising psychologist in a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for a specialized population, such as for clients with depressive, anxiety, psychotic, personality, or substance use disorders, who supervised staff and provided direct clinical services; and/or I have directed services for mentally ill offenders in an inpatient or outpatient setting. I have co-facilitated a skills training group in a structured treatment program for a specialized population; and/or I have worked as a therapist in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have provided clinical recommendations for individualized treatment as a member of a treatment team in an inpatient treatment unit for specialized populations, such as for clients with depressive, anxiety, psychotic, personality, or substance use disorders. None of the above. 7 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or group setting; and/or I have facilitated a non-correctional psychotherapy group. I have co-facilitated psychotherapy groups with a doctoral level psychologist; and/or I have conducted individual psychotherapy sessions and reported findings to a supervisor; and/or I have developed and implemented behavioral management plans for disruptive psychiatric inpatients. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have facilitated a psychotherapy group in a correctional setting; and/or I have led a research group which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality within a wide variety setting. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving an patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have reacted appropriately to a medical emergency by performing assessments for as needed treatment; and/or I have calmed someone who was upset; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have assisted others during a crisis situation. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of&nbsp;individuals with a sexual offense history. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follows the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment and Prevention of Sexual Abuse (ATSA).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided psychotherapy services or conducted mental health evaluations of justice-involved persons; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a community-based practice that treats sexual offenders; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for individuals with a sexual offense history on probation. I have, as a doctoral intern, completed a primary rotation on evaluation or treatment of individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have completed a postdoctoral internship providing clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offense treatment program; and/or I have during a formal practicum, co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offense treatment program. I have employed as a psychotherapist in a prison-based, residential treatment program for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have provided direct clinical services at an intensive outpatient program for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator who provided the oversight of direct clinical services in an outpatient evaluation unit for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for individuals with a sexual offense history on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed individuals with a sexual offense history. None of the above. 10 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. I have provided services to behaviorally disordered juveniles; and/or I have provided supervision of a group of behavioral management specialists providing care and management of developmentally disabled persons at a group home; and/or I have led a community case management program for chronically mentally ill persons. I have provided clinical training to peer or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., personality inventories intelligence tests, criminal thinking inventories, neurological screening tests, vocational assessments) and at least one type of test specific to individuals with a sexual offense history (i.e., STATIC-99R, SORAG, SVR-20, MnSOST-4, Multiphasic Sex Inventory-II, Stable-2007, SOTIPS, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, LOOK Assessment, Penile Plethysmograph); and/or I have wrote psychological reports which included assessment results including at least one type of test specific to individuals with a sexual offense history (i.e., STATIC-99R, SORAG, SVR-20, MnSOST-4, Multiphasic Sex Inventory-II, Stable-2007, SOTIPS, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, LOOK Assessment, Penile Plethysmograph). I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have scored psychological tests and written results summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments; and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments which included at least one type of test specific to individuals with a sexual offense history (i.e., STATIC-99R, SORAG, SVR-20, MnSOST-4, Multiphasic Sex Inventory-II, Stable-2007, SOTIPS, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, LOOK Assessment, Penile Plethysmograph). None of the above. 6 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions and his/her use within the context of a formal treatment program.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated a skills training group in a structured treatment program for a specialized population; and/or I have worked as a therapist in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have provided clinical recommendations for individualized treatment as a member of a treatment team in an inpatient treatment unit for specialized populations, such as for clients with depressive, anxiety, psychotic, personality, or substance use disorders. I have served as a director of a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for individuals with a sexual offense history, performing administrative duties, supervision of staff, and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have developed and supervised a skills-based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients; and/or I have served as coordinator for a specialized treatment program in an inpatient or forensic setting providing supervision and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have created and oversaw an outpatient treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered, or substance abusing patients. I have supervised therapists in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have served as the supervising psychologist in a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for a specialized population, such as for clients with depressive, anxiety, psychotic, personality, or substance use disorders, who supervised staff and provided direct clinical services; and/or I have directed services for mentally ill offenders in an inpatient or outpatient setting. None of the above. 7 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have facilitated a psychotherapy group in a correctional setting; and/or I have led a research group which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality within a wide variety setting. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or group setting; and/or I have facilitated a non-correctional psychotherapy group. I have facilitated a cognitive-behavioral therapy group in a sex offense treatment program; and/or I have conducted individual, cognitive-behaviorally based psychotherapy with individuals with a sexual offense history in a forensic setting; and/or I have maintained an individual/group caseload of individuals with a sexual offense history in an outpatient setting providing cognitive-behaviorally oriented interventions. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving an patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by provided an evidenced based treatment intervention as dictated by a treatment plan for an inmate on suicide watch; and/or I have determined whether an inmate’s condition is severe or chronic enough to warrant a referral to the Department of Mental Health; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with inmates with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have trained correctional staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of&nbsp;individuals with a sexual offense history. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follows the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment and Prevention of Sexual Abuse (ATSA).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a doctoral intern, completed a primary rotation on evaluation or treatment of individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have completed a postdoctoral internship providing clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offense treatment program; and/or I have during a formal practicum, co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offense treatment program. I have employed as a psychotherapist in a prison-based, residential treatment program for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have provided direct clinical services at an intensive outpatient program for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator who provided the oversight of direct clinical services in an outpatient evaluation unit for individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for individuals with a sexual offense history on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed individuals with a sexual offense history. I have worked as a forensic examiner with a specialization in individuals with a sexual offense history for criminal courts; and/or I have conducted risk assessments of individuals with a sexual offense history as a component of civil commitment proceedings; and/or I have performed psychosexual assessments of individuals with a sexual offense history in the context of a sex offense treatment program; and/or I have conducted psychological evaluations on civilly-committed individuals with a sexual offense history; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment for individuals with a sexual offense history. None of the above. 10 The Sex Offense Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training, supervision and mentoring to staff in a community-based or correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with policy and best practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. I have provided clinical training to peer or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).