Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for&nbsp;this position&nbsp;is defined as having experience 7 of the 8 following: &nbsp; (1) Experience following food handling and sanitation laws, regulations, policies, industry standards and regulations governing food service preparation and delivery. (2) Knowledge of government and state guidelines and business practices, regulations, policies and-procedures in procurement, accounting, preparation and food services. (3) Experience managing funds for administrative costs associated with food service contracts. (4) Experience as a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to manage and validate contractor invoice cost differentials, and use of contracting laws, rules and regulations. (5) Experience with program management principles in a food service and events operations capacity. (6) Experience in evaluating the performance of subordinate employees and initiating appropriate disciplinary action, when necessary. (7) Experience in developing detailed estimates and initial requests for the budget and approving expenditures of department funds. (8) Experience in supervising dining room operations and monitoring proper timing and preparation of foods so that the counters are set up and the work proceeds in an orderly manner. &nbsp; 2 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development program to facilitate change and communication. None of the above. 3 Do you have significant current experience applying laws, regulations and industry standards related to food service sanitation and safe food-handling procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Have you overseen contractor work to ensure it met specifications (e.g., system commissioning project work food service operations?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Select the response that best describes your experience scheduling and overseeing catering operations and retail food service units. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 6 Which project/program management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Developed statements of work (SOW) Developed project timelines and milestones Created project plans Monitored and evaluated contractor work Identified resources needed Prioritized program activities and goals Monitored expenditures Monitored project progress and performance Verified quality of project deliverables None of the above 7 Which Financial Management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Maintaining records of funding obligations and expenditures for assigned projects through financial management software Developing spreadsheets, reports and databases for providing clear, easy to understand status reports regarding budgetary information Prepare financial forecasts based on past or future performance and other relevant data for budgetary scheduling and estimating None of the above 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed using MS Excel or other automated spreadsheet software to analyze contractor performance, financial and operational status used to manage food service contractor performance? Answer to this question is required I have used MS Excel to document and analyze information pertaining to contractor performance. I have used MS Excel to complex formulas to analyze contract cost data. I have used MS Excel to link spreadsheets to analyze the financial and operational status of a contract budget. I have used MS Excel to generate complex reports. None of the above 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which of the following best indicate your level of experience applying federal and/or commercial contracting laws, regulations and contract management procedures. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience applying key laws, regulations and contract management procedures related to federal government contracting environment - minimal training required to become fully operational. I have some experience applying federal contracting laws and regulations and significant knowledge of commercial environment - some supplementary training in federal contracting may be required. I have experience primarily in applying commercial contracting laws and procedures - training in federal laws and regulations needed. I have limited experience applying contracting laws and regulations, but experience performing under federal or commercial food service contract. None of the above. 11 Which of the following tasks do you have experience performing in support of a large-scale food service contract to ensure the contractor meets the standards, best practices and contractual requirement for each task? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated effective and efficient front and back of house food service operations. I have reviewed contractor invoices and reports regarding food service delivery to ensure compliance with a food service contract. I have written reports regarding the assessment of food service operations in compliance with a food service contract. I have verified the allocation and utilization of resources required to accomplish program objectives meet the parameters established by legislation and agency policy. None of the above. 12 Which of the following groups of people do you have experience dealing with tactfully and convincingly regarding the coordination, delivery and management of food service operations? Answer to this question is required Customers Agency staff members/employees Senior executive leadership Contracting Officers Stakeholders None of the above 13 Select the responses that describe your experience interacting with persons of varied backgrounds, cultures, or opinions to accomplish work goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have accomplished goals working with people from diverse backgrounds and cultures. I have accomplished goals working with persons from a similar culture but of a different race, gender, or ethnicity from my own. I have accomplished goals working with persons with socio-economic statuses different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues and/or clients with a native language different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues or clients who held different views from my own on important subjects or issues. I have accomplished goals working with persons who held a hostile or antagonistic attitude toward me. None of the above 14 Select the types of teams you have led to accomplish team goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Multi-discipline teams Teams composed of individuals with varying levels of skill Multi-level teams (e.g., subordinates, peers, and supervisors) Multi-organizational teams None of the above 15 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 16 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 17 Please describe your experience with creating policies in assigned program areas to formulates appropriate strategies for program operational and system&rsquo;s needs; implements operations improvements; and support restaurant functions to ensure program objectives are met. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience applying key laws, regulations and contract management procedures related to federal government contracting environment minimal training required to become fully operational. I have some experience applying federal contracting laws and regulations and significant knowledge of commercial environment - some supplementary training in federal contracting may be required. I have experience primarily in applying commercial contracting laws and procedures - training in federal laws and regulations needed. I have limited experience applying contracting laws and regulations, but experience performing under federal or commercial food service contract. None of the above. 18 Please describe your experience with a nalyzing potential contract weaknesses and establishes criteria for food service operations involving complicated circumstances. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience applying key laws, regulations and contract management procedures related to federal government contracting environment minimal training required to become fully operational. I have some experience applying federal contracting laws and regulations and significant knowledge of commercial environment - some supplementary training in federal contracting may be required. I have experience primarily in applying commercial contracting laws and procedures - training in federal laws and regulations needed. I have limited experience applying contracting laws and regulations, but experience performing under federal or commercial food service contract. None of the above. 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.