Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 4 With which of the following laws, policies, directives and/or guidelines do you have experience and/or training? Answer to this question is required Federal Records Act Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Electronic Freedom of Information Act (EFOIA) Amendments to the FOIA Privacy Act Executive Order (EO) 12958 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) reporting requirements National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) information quality guidelines and standards None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 6 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established working relationships? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Supervisors Managers Members of the academic community Government organizations Private industry Law enforcement officials Technical experts Professional organizations Nongovernmental organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Law enforcement organizations Foreign government officials None of the above Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Identify the analytical and problem solving activities you have performed in an academic or professional setting: Answer to this question is required Collecting information from a variety of sources. Evaluating the similarities and disparities in data. Providing information to others on trends, patterns, or anomalies. Determining the authenticity, validity and veracity of sources. Developing new ways to gather and evaluate information. Developing and evaluating alternative solutions to problems. Analyzing alternative solutions to determine the potential consequences, advantages and disadvantages of each. None of the above. 4 Which of the following kinds of legal research have you performed? Answer to this question is required Researching a legislative history. Identifying appropriate statutes, regulations, case law, and other materials that are relevant to the disposition of a particular case or legal issue. Researching judicial decisions on a particular law. Researching a specific case or matter as designated by an attorney. Conducting basic factual research. None of the above. 5 Which of the following regulations/access laws have you utilized in determining whether information should be disclosed or withheld? Answer to this question is required Freedom of Information Act (5 USC 552) Privacy Act (5 USC 552a) Sunshine Act (5 USC 552b) E.O. 13526 (Classified National Security Information) None of the above. 6 From the list below, identify all audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or given presentations. Answer to this question is required General public Private industry Team members Supervisors Government officials None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.