Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your ability to identify and analyze foreign policy issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 2 Which of the following, best describes your experience with U.S. assistance efforts in the field of global health security? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, training or education related to global health security. I have education or training, but no professional experience related to global health security. I have performed tasks related to global health security under close supervision from a supervisor or more senior colleague. I have routinely and independently performed tasks related to the provision of global health security assistance, usually without review from a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled at performing tasks related to global health security and U.S. assistance efforts in this field. I have trained or overseen others or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 3 Select the answer(s) below that describe your public health work experience related to HIV / AIDS prevention, treatment, and/or care. Answer to this question is required I have promoted HIV / AIDS prevention and treatment with national / international public health agencies. I have developed and/or recommended improvements in HIV / AIDS prevention and treatment health related programs at the national, state or local level. I have promoted HIV / AIDS prevention and treatment with state public health agencies. I have promoted HIV / AIDS prevention and treatment with agencies / organizations at the local level. I have assisted others in promoting HIV / AIDS prevention and/or care. None of the above. 4 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your experience using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques to analyze and evaluate grant proposals and awards? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Choose the answer which best describes your experience with global health security policy. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with global health security policy. I have had training or education but no direct experience with global health security policy. I have limited work experience with global health security policy and apply my experience with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have substantial work experience with global health security policy. I am considered an expert in the field and consulted by others for advice. 6 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience dealing with foreign regulations and practices to administer a foreign grants program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 8 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have had formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for the program. I have no formal education / training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your experience working with international organizations on global health security issues (e.g., World Health Organization, World Organization for Animal Health, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization)? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, training or education related to working with international organizations on global health security issues. I have education or training, but no professional experience related to working with international organizations on global health security issues. I have performed tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, under the close supervision from a supervisor or more senior colleague. I have routinely and independently performed tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, usually without review from a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled at performing tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, having trained or overseen others or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in analyzing and developing health promotion activities? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 11 Select the choice which BEST describes the extent to which you have designed health promotion programs to meet the needs of the targeted audience (i.e., children, adolescents, adults, seniors, military members, etc): Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training designing health promotions programs. I have education or training in designing health promotions programs to meet the needs of the targeted audience (i.e., children, adolescents, adults, seniors, military members, etc.). I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed the task of designing health promotions programs to meet the needs of the targeted audience (i.e., children, adolescents, adults, seniors, military members, etc.) as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in designing health promotions programs to meet the needs of the targeted audience (i.e. , children, adolescents, adults, seniors, military members, etc.) due to my expertise in this area. 12 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 13 Experience working with foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with governments and non-governmental organizations. I have managed projects requiring coordination with the U.S. government and non-governmental organizations. I have worked on U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental committees and work groups. I have lead and coordinated programs with U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental organizations. None of the above 14 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience providing technical advice and guidance to managers, co-workers, headquarters staff and decision-makers on undefined issues and elements for programs critical to the agency`s mission? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Which of the following BEST describes your experience providing strategic information-related HIV technical assistance to countries supported by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.