Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above Specialized experience is defined as (1) reviewing, editing, and drafting documents; (2) supporting high level management in a confidential environment; and (3) extensive experience with Microsoft Office to support and manage recordkeeping. Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as (1) Supporting high-level management in a confidential environment to include managing schedules; (2) Using Microsoft Office suite and other software programs to support and manage administrative activities; (3) Providing customer service in person, by phone and in writing. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your presentation experience. Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from Agency, Department, other Federal agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 2 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 3 To which types of individuals have you provided customer services (e.g., answering inquiries)? Answer to this question is required High-profile individuals (e.g., members of congress, celebrities) Administrative staff Members of the general public/constituents Shop workers (e.g., electricians, masons, plumbers) Peers/co-workers None of the above 4 In which ways have you communicated with employees? Answer to this question is required Coached employees on job performance. Explained performance expectations. Led meeting discussions. Trained employees on new policies and/or procedures. Corrected inappropriate behavior. Described disciplinary actions being implemented. Advised employees of policies and procedures. Provided briefings on special events and/or unusual operational requirements. Explained employee schedules. None of the above. 5 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? (in 5,000 characters or less).&nbsp; Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 7 Select the external audiences to which your written products (e.g., reports, memos) have been disseminated. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required General Schedule (or equivalent) employees Wage Grade (or equivalent) employees General public Federal agencies Members of Congress or Congressional staff Members of the press/media Professional associations None of the above 8 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical or management reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 9 Please provide a brief statement describing the types of administrative problems you have encountered and how you have successfully resolved them (in 5,000 characters or less). Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Select all areas of executive support in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Managing calendars Scheduling meetings Recording and distributing minutes of meetings Generating and routing documents for approval Disseminating communications and information to staff None of the above 11 Please list the computer programs you have experience with. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Please list and briefly describe the programs you currently manage/have managed. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Select&nbsp;the schedules for which you are available: Answer to this question is required I am able to work DURING EMERGENCIES AND INCLEMENT WEATHER SITUATIONS. I am able to WORK HOLIDAYS AND WEEKENDS ON A REGULAR AND RECURRING BASIS. I am not available to work any of the shifts noted above. 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.