Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience performing plumbing and pipefitting duties with minimal supervision? Such experience would have ensured proper flow, operation, pressure, drainage, and sanitary conditions of piping systems including domestic hot and cold water; fire sprinkler; irrigation; tempered water; drain, waste, and vent; fountain display; etc. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which activities have you performed related to programming automatic irrigation systems? Answer to this question is required I have set the time and duration of irrigation for different zones. I have adjusted irrigation programming based on weather conditions. I have identified malfunctions in the irrigation system (e.g., leaks). None of the above. 4 I have independently completed routine service calls/work orders (i.e., unclogging a toilet, rebuilding a residential style toilet). Answer to this question is required True False 5 How have you assisted with maintaining tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Inspected tools/equipment before using them to ensure they were in proper working order Notified a supervisor when tools/equipment were damaged or missing Cleaned tools/equipment after they were used Ensured tools/equipment were not exposed to elements known to cause damage None of the above 6 Which response best describes your highest level of experience rebuilding a fixture? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with rebuilding a fixture. I have rebuilt a fixture under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently rebuilt a fixture. None of the above. Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience performing plumbing and pipefitting duties with minimal supervision? Such experience would have ensured proper flow, operation, pressure, drainage, and sanitary conditions of piping systems including domestic hot and cold water; fire sprinkler; irrigation; tempered water; drain, waste, and vent; fountain display; etc. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to backflow devices? Answer to this question is required I understand how backflow devices function but do not have hands-on experience with them. I assisted more senior workers with installing backflow devices. I installed backflow devices and tested the assembly. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience performing backflow testing? Answer to this question is required I have performed backflow testing under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently performed backflow testing. I have trained others on the proper procedures for backflow testing. None of the above. 6 Do you have experience applying your knowledge of water mains up to 10 inches in diameter? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience performing plumbing and pipefitting duties with minimal supervision? Such experience would have ensured proper flow, operation, pressure, drainage, and sanitary conditions of piping systems including domestic hot and cold water; fire sprinkler; irrigation; tempered water; drain, waste, and vent; fountain display; etc. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to backflow devices? Answer to this question is required I understand how backflow devices function but do not have hands-on experience with them. I assisted more senior workers with installing backflow devices. I installed backflow devices and tested the assembly. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience working with major 12 inch diameter steel pipe for fire hydrant installations and repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining plumbing/piping systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of plumbing/piping systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with maintaining plumbing/piping systems under direct supervision from others. I have independently maintained plumbing/piping systems. I have trained others on the procedures for performing plumbing/piping work. None of the above. 2 I have independently set pipe routes, without assistance from a senior worker or supervisor. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Which codes/standards have you applied while completing coursework or on-the-job tasks? Answer to this question is required International Plumbing Code NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) codes and standards ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) standards and guidelines None of the above 4 On which topics or theories have you completed coursework or on the job training? Answer to this question is required Valve types and purposes Fittings (PVC, copper, steel) Plumbing mathematics Piping layout Irrigation head types Water filters Catch basins Diverters Irrigation control valves Low voltage control valves None of the above 5 In which industries have you performed pipefitting work? Answer to this question is required Commercial Industrial Residential None of the above 6 Do you have experience soldering and/or brazing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which fixtures have you installed, assembled or rebuilt? Answer to this question is required Turf irrigation heads Eye wash stations Turf irrigation valves Drinking fountains None of the above 8 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Landscape irrigation piping Fire hydrant and mains Back flow drains and valves Ornamental water features and fountains Reflecting pools Storm drains Sump pumps Sewage ejector pumps None of the above 9 Which resources have you interpreted and applied with help from others? Answer to this question is required Written call assignments Building plans/floor plans Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturers specifications Blueprints Policies and procedures None of the above 10 Which response best describes your highest level of experience using pipefitting blueprints? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience using blueprints. I understand how pipefitting blueprints are used but cannot interpret them without guidance from more senior workers. I provide my initial interpretation of pipefitting blueprints and confirm with a more senior worker on the accuracy of my interpretation before performing work. I independently interpret and follow pipefitting blueprints. 11 Which layout tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.