Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Do you have at least one year of full-time experience equivalent to the GS-07 level defined as coordinating and monitoring administrative operations for an organization. This experience must include: tracking business processes involving areas such as budget, procurement, travel, personnel actions, records, or other administrative functions; reviewing transactions, documentation, or requests for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with established procedures; maintaining reports, trackers, records, or other tools used to monitor deadlines, expenditures, commitments, or pending actions; identifying delayed, incomplete, or inconsistent actions and coordinating with staff or other offices to resolve them; and applying established guidance to resolve routine operational problems or recommend improvements to administrative processes. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Coordinate multiple administrative activities, deadlines, and requirements affecting different departments, programs, or work units. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 3 Maintain tracking systems or other tools to monitor pending administrative actions, identify delays, and ensure timely follow-up. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance.( I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process 4 Review administrative requests or documentation for accuracy, completeness, required approvals, and compliance with established procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 5 Coordinate with employees, supervisors, and other offices to resolve delayed, incomplete, or inconsistent administrative actions. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 6 Track expenditures, commitments, purchase requests, contracts, purchase card activity, or other financial transactions against a budget or spending plan.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. . I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 7 Review financial, procurement, or travel documentation for proper coding, supporting information, approvals, and compliance with established requirements. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 8 Maintain or prepare spreadsheets, reports, projections, or other tools used for budget monitoring, purchasing, or operational planning. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 9 Research financial or procurement discrepancies and coordinate with the appropriate offices to resolve them. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 10 Review an administrative workflow to identify unclear responsibilities, recurring delays, unnecessary steps, duplication, or compliance risks. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 11 Develop or revise procedures, checklists, templates, timelines, or tracking tools to improve administrative processes. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 12 Apply general policies or procedural guidance to situations that are not specifically addressed in existing instructions. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 13 Recommend or implement practical solutions to recurring administrative or operational problems. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 14 Coordinate or track documentation associated with personnel actions, onboarding, awards, performance management, training, or professional development. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process.( 15 Develop, update, or organize onboarding materials and processes for new employees. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 16 Organize and maintain paper or electronic administrative records using established file structures, naming conventions, retention requirements, or records schedules. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job.( I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 17 Coordinate a records organization, digitization, transfer, retention, or disposition project. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 18 Coordinate multiple administrative activities, deadlines, and requirements affecting different departments, programs, or work units. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 19 Respond to questions or incomplete requests and identify the steps needed to move the matter forward. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job.( I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. 20 Determine when an administrative issue can be resolved independently and when it should be elevated to management or a subject-matter expert. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance.( I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process 21 Communicate professionally and exercise discretion when handling sensitive or confidential administrative information. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience performing this task I have received education or training in this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision or assistance I have performed this task independently as a regular part of a job.(3) I have performed this task independently in complex situations and have trained or advised others, developed procedures, or improved the process. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.