Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess journey-level woodcrafting or carpentry skills? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 4 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing. Choose all that apply. Answer to this question is required Counter Tops Doors (metal and wood) Windows Paneling Frames and Cased Openings Baseboards Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Inlay work Studs (metal and wood) Drywall Acoustic ceilings None of the above 5 Do you have experience with construction, alteration, repair and modification of wood work items and structures (e.g. walls, ceilings) where accuracy, spacing and fit are essential to structural soundness and appearance? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate carpentry and woodcraft work? Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC None of the above 7 Select the activities you have performed to maintain wood crafter tools. Answer to this question is required Replaced dull/damaged blades Sharpened dull blades Lubricated tools and/or equipment parts Identified loose or damaged parts needing repair None of the above 8 What types of wood products have you used? Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes None of the above 9 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Plastic Overlaying Steam Bending Grain Matching None of the Above 10 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfaces Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding Wood Conditioner None of the above 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.