Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [63199] Are you currently or have ever been a politically appointed employee in the executive branch of the U.S. Federal Government?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 3.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 3.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 3.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).