Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of marketing principles and techniques for creating, producing, and distributing informational and promotional materials.** Created, produced, and distributed informational, marketing, and outreach materials including: 1) correspondence, 2) memorandums, 3) promotional materials, 4) announcements, 5) presentations, 6) informational materials, 7) forms, 8) brochures, 9) flyers, 10) press releases, and 11) social media. Answer to this question is required Often sought out by others to conceptualize, design, develop, produce, and distribute marketing and promotional information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. Stays abreast of new and emerging media trends. Contributed ideas, strategies, and concepts to the design, development, production, and distribution of marketing and promotional information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. Worked as a team member marketing and promoting information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to perform client services and outreach activities.** Performed client services and outreach duties with individuals working in a public affairs or communications environment. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) articulating full range of services and resources of the organization to clients; and 3) ensuring the service that best meets client needs. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently performed client services and outreach activities in a large, multi-functional academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; determining level of service required; connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs; and resolving any difficulties or complaints. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. As a primary job responsibility, performed client services and outreach activities in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; determining level of service required; connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs; and resolving any difficulties or complaints. Implemented outreach strategies. As part of a team, performed client services and outreach activities in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating products, services, and resources; and connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs. Referred complaints to supervisor for resolution. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote program publicity and marketing for print and electronic distribution and drafted a variety of documents, including 1) marketing/promotional materials, 2) social media content, such as blogs and post, 3) presentations, 4) press-releases, 5) meeting/event announcements or agendas, 6) memoranda, 7) program/event evaluations, and, 8) promotional or publicity materials for paper or electronic distribution. Answer to this question is required Wrote, drafted, and edited ALL of the above documents for the development of promotional, explanatory, or publicity materials for an organization or office. Wrote, drafted and edited SIX or SEVEN of the above documents for the development of promotional, explanatory, or publicity materials for an organization or office. Assisted with writing or drafting at least FIVE of the above documents for an organization or office. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Apply the Basic Principles, Concepts, and Methodologies of Events Planning. Coordinated and implemented logistical support for a wide range of programs and internal and external outreach campaigns performing such duties as: 1) preparing collateral material for outreach events, 2) developing lists of contacts for outreach, 3) coordinating clerical staff assistance, 4) staffing education and outreach events, 5) entering data and assisting with the purchase of related items. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, independently coordinated and implemented logistical support for ALL of the events above As a primary responsibility, independently or with minimal supervision, coordinated and implemented logistical support for FOUR (4) of the events above. With minimum supervision, coordinated and implemented logistical support for THREE (3) of the events above. None of The Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to interact collaboratively with others, exercising judgment and discretion. Worked well and cooperated with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, contractors and/or other service and support organizations) using judgment and discretion to provide positive and professional consultation and/or liaison services, anticipating their current and future needs and exchanging accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of an office. Answer to this question is required Supported an organization by collaborating and using judgment and discretion in communications with prominent private individuals, government officials, managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization. Regularly and effectively communicated with individuals to ensure matters were addressed, deadlines and requirements were met; and to promote events. Supported an organization by collaborating and using judgment and discretion in communications with supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization. Effectively communicated with individuals to ensure matters were addressed, deadlines and requirements were met; and to promote events. Supported an organization by collaborating and using judgment and discretion in communications primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. Planned and organized time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) setting priorities, determining long-term vs. short-term priorities; 2) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities, and 3) completing assigned tasks within schedule constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and organized time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included performing ALL of the above in support of an office promoting programs, events and/or outreach activities. With minimal supervision, planned and organized time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included performing ALL of the above in support of an office promoting programs, events and/or outreach activities. Under Supervision, worked both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included performing ALL of the above. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).