Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the specialized experience requirement for this CT-14 position as listed in this vacancy announcement? (See section "Qualifications Required" of the vacancy announcement to read the specialized experience requirement.) Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False The following situational judgement questions are designed to assess your mastery of key competencies. You will be presented with realistic scenarios that require technical expertise and sound judgement. Your task is to identify the requested course of action (most effective or least effective) for each situation. To ensure we identify the best-qualified candidates, there is no partial credit for responses that fail to identify the requested action.&nbsp;&nbsp; 7 A major Derivatives Clearing Organization (DCO) submits a proposed margin model utilizing a novel Monte Carlo simulation. Your independent back-testing using SAS reveals that while the model meets the 99% regulatory coverage minimum during normal market conditions, it fails to account for severe "fat tail" events (extreme historical market shocks) relevant to their specific product mix. What is the most effective response to this situation? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Reject the model outright and mandate they return to the standard SPAN methodology to ensure immediate compliance. Approve the model with a formal warning, as it strictly meets the baseline 99% coverage objective outlined in current regulations. Draft a comprehensive technical memo detailing the specific vulnerabilities and initiate a dialogue with the DCO’s quantitative staff to request revised back-testing data incorporating stress scenarios for those fat-tail events. Independently rewrite the DCO’s algorithm using MATLAB to fix the fat-tail vulnerability and present the corrected model to the DCO for implementation. 8 During your daily evaluation of pay/collect data, your automated MATLAB stress test flags a potential significant margin breach for a large Clearing Member holding a heavily concentrated portfolio of Interest Rate Swaps. The data from the large trader reporting system seems unusually volatile today, potentially due to a data feed error. What is the least effective response to this situation? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Immediately escalate the potential breach to the leadership and recommend an emergency margin call before verifying the data feed accuracy. Cross-reference the volatile data against secondary market news and commodity prices to determine if the volatility is reflective of actual market conditions. Contact the risk management staff at the clearinghouse to collaboratively verify the integrity of the data transmission. Run a localized "what-if" scenario on the portfolio assuming the data is accurate, to quantify the maximum potential financial impact while simultaneously verifying the feed. 9 A DCO proposes a new cross-margining program with a foreign exchange. The proposal aims to reduce capital burdens for clearing members by utilizing a "one-pot" margining system. However, your review indicates that the legal framework for liquidating assets in the foreign jurisdiction during a default is highly ambiguous. What is the most effective response? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Focus your review strictly on the quantitative margin reductions and leave the legal framework assessment entirely to the legal team. Recommend denial of the cross-margining program because the organization’s oversight programs generally discourage international "one-pot" systems. Collaborate with the legal team to understand the legal risks, and model "what-if" scenarios that calculate the potential financial shortfall to the DCO if the foreign assets are frozen during a default. Approve the quantitative model but add a footnote in your report indicating that foreign liquidations might be delayed. 10 A sudden, unexpected geopolitical event causes massive overnight price swings in energy futures. You arrive at work and must quickly identify which Futures Commission Merchants (FCMs) pose an unusual level of risk to the clearinghouses. What is the least effective action to take first? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Review the large trader and clearing member position reports from the previous close to identify concentrated exposures in energy futures. Begin drafting a long-term historical analysis of how previous geopolitical events impacted margin models over a five-year period. Evaluate the intraday pay/collect data to see which FCMs are currently struggling to meet variation margin calls. Coordinate with the regional Audit and Financial Review branches to monitor the immediate capital levels of the most exposed FCMs. 11 You are testifying as an expert witness in an administrative hearing. You have just explained that a DCO's margin model failed to provide adequate coverage during a volatile period. The opposing counsel aggressively cross-examines you, using highly technical jargon in an attempt to confuse the administrative law judge and misrepresent your statistical findings regarding "expected shortfall." What is the most effective way to respond? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; MOST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Match the opposing counsel's tone and use even more advanced statistical terminology to assert your absolute mastery over the subject. Pause, politely correct the counsel's misrepresentation of the metric, and explain "expected shortfall" to the judge using a clear, relatable analogy without compromising technical accuracy. Refuse to answer the question, stating that the counsel's premise is flawed and the quantitative data speaks for itself. Defer to the legal team to object, remaining silent until the exact definition is agreed upon by the lawyers. 12 You are leading a crucial presentation for department senior staff regarding a proposed material change to a complex margin methodology. Ten minutes in, you notice that the policy directors look completely lost, while the quantitative staff are arguing about a minor variable in the back-testing estimation period. What is the least effective way to handle the room? Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;(Identify the&lt;strong&gt; LEAST EFFECTIVE&lt;/strong&gt; Response)&lt;/span&gt; Pause the presentation, address the quant staff's argument by offering to take it offline for a detailed review, and pivot to summarize the high-level impact for the policy directors. Ignore the arguing quantitative staff and continue reading directly from your slides to ensure you get through all the material within the allotted time. Stop and ask the policy directors specifically what aspects of the operational changes are unclear, adjusting your explanation to focus on their strategic concerns. Briefly summarize the minor variable for the room so the policy directors understand the context of the argument, then steer the conversation back to the overall risk framework. 13 I certify that my answers to the above questions are reflective of my own work and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as large language models (LLM)).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand, if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. &sect; 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).