Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Assisted in the development of plans and criteria for a subsystem of an operating, database or e-mail system. Reviewed and made recommendations to a project leader on network systems software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Monitored/Evaluated a system component of a local area network. Provided adjustments or maintenance on LAN or a mainframe system hardware. Reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or using a systems program. Provided evaluation plans input as a member of a workgroup or team. Designed, tested, installed and/or maintained software for a nationwide computer system. Ran teleprocessing monitors or application servers. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of relational databases. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of network databases. Developed software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested hardware systems for a major hardware platform. Evaluated software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested and configured application software and hardware. Modified an existing IRM system design as instructed. Modified an existing computer program. Worked with Agency's Internet, Intranet and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) development and usage. Monitored agency home page and used security packages and hardware devices to protect information on the web and EDI environment. Assisted in monitoring a system or program. Developed an operational manual, directive and/or agency policy to reflect system modifications and new procedures. Monitored compliance with information security requirements at the regional or local level. Assisted in evaluating plans for an advanced system. Reviewed performance data and compared with similar systems at other locations. Analyzed/examined procedures and policy and made recommendations for local policy. Assisted in the set-up and testing of software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Customer Service : Provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. Participated in staff assistance visits or IT program reviews to advise and improve operations at field locations experiencing problems. Adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate IT needs of the division/office/unit. Provided guidance to staff in modifying existing network design. Provided guidance to staff during the testing and configuration of network hardware from an existing template. Responded to information security and/or audit related questions received from field/region/high level external sources. Implemented and provided training or otherwise disseminated information to regional and local staff regarding their responsibilities for agency security program requirements. Advised management of newly developed cost effective alternative to present IT systems. Oral Communication : Conducted training or other presentations related to network systems. Made frequent contacts with private industry software development contractors or commercial software and hardware vendors. Presented information to manager located in outside agencies or private sector businesses. Facilitated a training class on a new automated system. Problem Solving : Participated in a workgroup to resolve a critical problem in a existing system. Served as a primary resource person for technical problems. Researched local/departmetn problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improve the effectiveness of a program. Recommended adjustments to staff duties to respond to immediate needs of a system problem. Prepared response to program review or other type of audit findings. Determined the vulnerability of local information systems. Researched local/department problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improved the effectiveness of a program. 1 In addition, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicants must have actively worked on Cisco hardward and software for the past 24 consecutive months. Applicants must clearly address these areas in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Network Engineer provides IT solutions by guiding and developing projects that deploy innovative information technologies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a technical resource for the development of information technology standards for use by federal, state or local agencies; and/or I have contributed to the development of long-and short-range plans for automation, management, systems testing, productivity and information security technology improvements for a correctional institution/detention facility; and/or I have participated in information security assessments for a correctional/detention facility, which included risk assessment, and demonstrated comprehensive in-depth information security and electronics expertise that addressed the personnel, procedures, and software/hardware aspects of a total integrated information technology program for each site. I have contributed a concept or narrative for development of information technology standards to be used by federal, state and local agencies; and/or I have reviewed long-and short-range plans for automation, management, systems testing, productivity and information security technology improvements for a correctional institution/secure detention facility; and/or I have observed information security assessments for a correctional facility, which included risk assessment, the demonstrated comprehensive in-depth information security and electronics expertise that addressed the personnel, procedures, and software/hardware aspects of a total integrated information technology program for each site. I have served as an advisor for the development of information technology standards for use by federal, state or local agencies; and/or I have developed long-and short-range plans for automation, management, systems testing, productivity and information technology improvements for a correctional institution/detention facility; and/or I have conducted information security assessments for an enterprise network infrastructure, which included risk assessment, or demonstrated comprehensive in-depth information technology expertise that addressed the personnel, procedures, and software/hardware aspects of a total integrated information technology program for each site. None of the above. 6 The Network Engineer designs network systems to support growing user and technological requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed router queuing strategies, rate limiting policies, prioritizing mission critical and real time traffic, configured GRE and VPN tunneling, Dynamic Multipoint Virtual Private Network (DMVPN), Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS), Sonet Ring technology, and routing protocols EIGRP, BGP, and OSPF); and/or I have designed, configured, installed and maintained Cisco network routers, switches, and firewalls (i.e., VTP modes and domains, Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), VLANs, Switched Virtual Interfaces (SVI), Hot Standby Routing Protocol (HSRP), and trunked interfaces). I have configured VLANs and switched virtual interfaces (SVIs); and/or I have configured trunked interfaces, and upgraded Cisco IOS on LAN switches; and/or I have reviewed business requirements and developed a complete network design which was subsequently implemented on an enterprise wide basis; and/or I have prepared reports for management justifying infrastructure upgrades; and/or I have applied IEEE standards for networks; and/or I have managed and deployed IPv4 (Internet Protocol Version 4) using various subnet masks to size networks according to the requirements; and/or I have worked as a liaison with a WAN or ISP provider to convey the network requirements (i.e., bandwidth requirements); and/or I have implemented and configured WAN routing protocols (i.e., EIGRP, BGP, RIP, and OSPF); and/or I have configured Cisco switches to support end user network devices (i.e., workstations, printers and VTC units). I have assisted in the development of a complete network design which was subsequently implemented on an enterprise wide basis; and/or I have assisted the lead network engineer with gathering the requirements for the enterprise network, and identified the number of hosts and resources that would need to be supported; and/or I have prepared budget quotes for product upgrades; and/or I have prepared reports for management justifying infrastructure upgrades; and/or I have deployed IPv4(i.e., maintained a database that documented IP address assignments); and/or I have served as point of contact on recurring or non-critical matters (i.e., contacted vendors for release of new products); and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have explained to individuals security procedures and measures in place. I have designed and installed data center network cable plant to support 10 gigabit Ethernet fiber backbone and gigabit Ethernet copper access infrastructure; and/or I have designed and deployed wireless local area networks (WLAN), identified access point location(s) and configured Wireless Control System (WCS)or Wireless LAN Controllers (WLC); and/or I have reviewed business requirements and developed a complete network design which was subsequently implemented on an enterprise wide basis, researched and prepared budget quotes for product upgrades, prepared reports for management justifying infrastructure upgrades; and/or I have identified and upgraded Cisco IOS to support the network application and security requirements. None of the above. 7 The Network Engineer is responsible for managing network infrastructure devices as well as any applications that support. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed a local area network (LAN) on less than 1000 nodes; and/or I have assisted others in performing audits on the infrastructure; and/or I have provided current installed software and hardware versions; and/or I have aided in installation and maintenance of Cisco switches and Cisco firewalls. I have utilized Cisco Prime, HP Open View, or Solar Winds/Orion for less than 3500 nodes; and/or I have performed audits on the infrastructure (i.e., provided reports of current Cisco IOS versions, hardware versions, and configuration parameters); and/or I have assisted others in establishing network baseline parameters (i.e., provided statistics for latency, bandwidth utilization). I have managed Cisco Prime/ DNA Center, HP Open View, and/or Solar Winds Orion for more than 3500 nodes; and/or I have managed staff or a team that has performed a complete installation of an enterprise wide network management platform; and/or I have configured network management platforms such as Cisco Prime or DNA Center (i.e., adding managed devices, removing no longer managed devices, creating different network views by geological location or device type, modifying credentials such as SNMP strings); and/or I have scheduled jobs to perform enterprise wide updates (i.e., Cisco IOS versions, configuration changes, network discovery, searched for unauthorized devices on the network); and/or I have established network baseline parameters (i.e., provide statistics for latency, bandwidth utilization, interface speed/duplex mismatches, configured SNMPv3 polling). None of the above. 8 The Network Engineer develops technical documentation that explains network layout, configuration procedures, and implementation of new technology. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared instructional e-mails to end users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine computer related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation. I have developed several end user guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide); and/or I have established complex functional requirements documentation (i.e., network software and hardware standards that will be used across the enterprise network); and/or I have developed a schematic layout of how the enterprise network is interconnected; and/or I have written technical contingency procedures to be applied by an agency, organization, or corporation (i.e., disaster recovery procedures). I have developed data flow diagrams; and/or I have completed sections of larger reports for review by management (i.e., information technology use or proposals); and/or I have completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures; and/or I have revised established functional requirements documentation. None of the above. 9 The Network Engineer is responsible for implementing and reviewing current and future information security policies and design. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated, analyzed, researched, and provided technical support for the continued development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of high-tech, large or complex inspection, surveillance and investigative systems and equipment; and/or I have instituted effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and security technologies were put in place and followed correctly; and/or I have developed and conducted audit or assessment procedures/plans to ensure that security technologies are operating as indicated and developed recommendations to correct identified deficiencies. I have installed information technology devices or software/hardware related to the security mission of Bureau of Prisons; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the areas of development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of high-tech large or complex inspection, intrusion and investigative systems and equipment; and/or I have participated in the development of effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and information security technologies were put in place and followed correctly. I have assisted in the coordination, analysis, research, and/or technical support for the continued development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of high-tech large or complex inspection, detection and investigative systems and equipment; and/or I have assisted in the implementation of effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and information security technologies were put in place and followed correctly; and/or I have implemented audits of information security technologies or implemented recommended corrective actions. None of the above. 10 The Network Engineer monitors and supports new and existing contracts written to fulfill network infrastructure requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed statements of work and requests for purchase on enterprise wide projects; and/or I have evaluated or monitored contractor or vendor performance on high-profile contracts or projects; and/or I have initiated or monitored procurement and contract activities for a project or program area; and/or I have maintained and monitored contracts and service that require renewal on an annual basis; and/or I have worked with vendors to provide updated pricing and quotes. I have assisted in the review of contract proposals; and/or I have assisted in the evaluation of contractor or vendor performance; and/or I have aided in a procurement or contract activity for a project or program area. I have prepared requests for purchase or credit card orders for simple purchases; and/or I have interacted with project managers or Contracting Officer Representative on an ongoing basis; and/or I have aided in a procurement or contract activity to a single entity or office. None of the above. 11 The Network Engineer serves as the BOP&rsquo;s liaison with numerous outside entities to include, the DOJ and all its components, other government agencies and contract organizations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral briefing at the department level on issues having major organization/agency impact; and/or I have represented the agency and negotiated on its behalf on interagency workgroups with other federal and state agencies to develop agency-wide and government-wide IT policy initiatives and systems; and/or I have chaired workgroups or project teams tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference or via an Executive Staff meeting. I have participated on a project team which included members of the Executive Staff in an agency/organization; and/or I have assisted in representing the agency/organization in testifying on the agency’s behalf during legal/arbitrator proceeding; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization); and/or I have provided accurate information that stated the agency’s position with facts and research. I have advised management of critical problems and recommended solutions associated with IT telecommunication and network management; and/or I have interacted with senior staff of national vendors to develop standards, specifications, or policies; and/or I have articulated highly technical information that provided clarity and ensured colleagues, supervisors and other key decision makers were well informed; and/or I have communicated the team’s role in the Agency’s mission, both to the team, and to others within the organization; and/or I have provided accurate, current and understandable information to policy makers by citing the implications of available options in an unbiased fashion. I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have worked in leadership role on an internal local planning committee; and/or I have participated in meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have led an internal organizational committee to develop IT standards. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).