Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-14 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. 4 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed and implemented: Answer to this question is required Security Clearance Adjudication Facility / Information Access Force Protection High-threat Security Guard Force Operations Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Counter Intelligence Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Training None of the above 6 Which of the following statement(s) describe your experience providing professional advice to others related to engineering issues? Answer to this question is required I have provided advice related to the technical specifications in construction plans. I have provided advice related to the accuracy of technical reports. I have provided advice related to the thoroughness of technical analyses. I have provided advice related to adherence of existing laws, policies, and regulations. None of the above. 7 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues: Answer to this question is required Risk Management / Analysis Personnel Security Counter-intelligence Information Assurance Construction Security Technical Security Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Electronic Security Physical Security Force Protection None of the above 8 I have performed data analyses to: Answer to this question is required develop long range program planning. determine overall project execution methodology. evaluate specific project activities. resolve project-specific issues. none of the above. 9 In which of the following areas of engineering have you had hands-on experience? Answer to this question is required Planning Design Construction Cost Estimating Management / Administration None of the above 10 Which types of teams have you managed? Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary or cross functional Multi-agency Multi-stakeholder A team within a work group None of the above 11 I have drafted and/or analyzed the following types of documents: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Engineering reports Project reports Budget Inventory reports Construction inspection records Material test results Plan specifications Bid documentation Contracts Engineering manuals None of the above 12 Which program / project management activities you have performed? Answer to this question is required I have served as a program / project manager (i.e. Team Leader, Group Leader) on a project requiring extensive coordination, both internal and external to my organization, that was successfully completed. I have served as a program / project manager (i.e. Team Leader, Group Leader) on a project considered to be "high profile" for my organization that was successfully completed. I have served as a program / project manager (i.e. Team Leader, Group Leader) on an international project that was successfully completed. I was assigned a particular segment of a team project that was successfully completed. None of the above. 13 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established timelines for multiple, simultaneous projects Closed out projects Initiated and managed projects through completion Established and monitored project progress Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitor individuals` performance Anticipated and resolved contractor problems None of the above 14 Which scheduling activities you have performed? Answer to this question is required Prepared resource loaded schedules using project management software, such as MS Project or Primavera Analyzed schedule information to determine optimum process using project management software, such as MS Project or Primavera Coordinated multiple summary tasks using project management software, such as MS Project or Primavera Developed bar / Gantt chart schedules indicating activities and durations only Prepared Critical Path Method scheduling Prepared Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) chart scheduling Prepared manual (pen and ink) schedule updates Performed tasks in accordance with a project schedule driven report None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.