Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have a degree in entomology; or a related discipline of the biological or physical sciences that included at least 16 semester hours in entomology. I have a combination of education and experience/courses equivalent to a major that included course work as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the experience or education described above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience performing work related to the design of interior and exterior spaces including the renovation of building and office space and the selection of carpet, furniture, window treatments and other interior design components? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing work related to the design of interior and exterior spaces including the renovation of building and office space and the selection of carpet, furniture, window treatments and other interior design components. I have experience performing work related to the design of interior and exterior spaces including the renovation of building and office space. I have experience performing work related to the design of interior and exterior spaces including the renovation of building space. I have experience performing work related to the design of interior and exterior spaces. I have experience performing work related to the design of interior space. I do not have related experience. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with financial management for general space planning and design? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience developing cost estimates and budgets for general space planning and design in an organization. I have experience developing cost estimates for general space planning and design in an organization. I have experience developing cost estimates, budgets and spending plans for general space planning and design in an organization. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience collaborating with curators, conservators, and other museum professionals on the interpretation, protection, and display of artifacts? Answer to this question is required I have participated in this collaborative process and/or worked on the development or documentation of design strategies for artifact interpretation, protection, and display. I have participated in similar collaborative processes with technical experts on design projects and assisted in documenting outcomes. I have completed education or training in the interpretation, protection, or display of artifacts but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have had no experience or skill in this area. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing detailed scopes of work for contracted exhibition design services and/or managing contracted design resources? Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design services and/or serving as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) for contracted design resources. I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design services and/or managing contracted design resources. I have some experience preparing detailed scopes of work for design services and/or managing contracted design resources. I have assisted in preparing detailed scopes of work for design services and/or managing contracted design resources. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following describes your experience writing and editing employee discipline and performance documents, e.g., performance improvement plans, letters of reprimand, proposed suspension notices, notices of proposed removal, and decision notices? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have informed management of regulatory and other requirements to be considered in effecting disciplinary actions, removals, suspensions, and in resolving grievances and appeals related to formal disciplinary actions taken. I have developed policy and guidance relating to the ER/LR programs. I have identified problems and conflicts with current policies and procedures, and developed recommendations for changes to employee discipline and performance documents. I have prepared proposed suspension and removal notices for management and identified specific problems and provided feedback to management. I have reviewed grievances and advised management on how to respond to said actions. I have reviewed and edited proposed suspensions and removal notices that are drafted by management. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience preparing draft position descriptions and performance plans for staff? Answer to this question is required I have prepared position descriptions and performance plans for subordinates. I have prepared position descriptions and performance plans for clerical positions. I have prepared position descriptions, performance plans for administrative, scientific positions, align the positions to the organizational goals. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.