Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 All candidates for Accountant positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor."); OR Combination of education and experience--at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that: (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; AND ; (b)a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 1 After reading the requirements above, please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Accountant job series. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in A above. I meet the requirements set forth in B above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.1 above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.2 above. I meet the requirements set forth in B.3 above. I do not meet the requirements set forth above. Specialized experience is experience in performing accounting functions and interpreting or implementing new or revised accounting policies and processes. This experience must demonstrate the following: Applying federal, or similar, accounting principles, standards, and regulations (e.g., Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars, Government Accountability Office (GAO) guidance) to improve program and/or system effectiveness. Managing and overseeing the financial reporting process for a federal agency or program, including preparing or reviewing agency financial statements and supporting schedules, and Experience with federal, or similar, financial systems (e.g., preparing data for or using a system compliant with the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act (FFMIA). 2 Do you have one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as stated above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-14 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-13 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 4 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-14 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-14 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-14 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-14 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. 5 Are you applying for this position based on current eligibility under the GSA Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 If you are applying for this position under the GSA Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), select the choice(s) that apply: I am an employee of the General Services Administration who has been declared surplus or displaced, AND I am requesting special selection priority under GSA`s Career Transition Assistance Plan. I have served at or above the full performance level of the position (see vacancy announcement). My position is in the same local commuting area as the vacancy (see vacancy announcement). I do not meet all of the above requirements. No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).