Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 To qualify for the GS-13 level, you need to have at least one year of full-time experience equivalent to the GS-12 level defined as:&nbsp;experience assessing and managing third-party cybersecurity risks associated with vendor-managed services, cloud service providers, software-as-a-service (SaaS) platforms, and other externally hosted systems and applications; conducting security reviews to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities; implementing vulnerability management processes; and recommending safeguards to protect information systems, networks, and organizational data Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Describe your experience working with system administrators, operations teams, or vendors to remediate vulnerabilities and apply security patches. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 What security tools have you used to monitor, identify, or remediate vulnerabilities (e.g., Nessus, Qualys, Microsoft Defender, Tenable, Splunk, Sentinel)? Describe how you used them to improve an organization's security posture&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 What processes or controls have you implemented to proactively prevent vulnerabilities in information systems? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Which cybersecurity certifications do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required CISSP CISM Security+ CGRC (formerly CAP) Other 6 Provide an example of how you evaluated the security posture of a vendor, cloud service, or third-party application. What factors did you consider, and what recommendation did you make?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Tell us about a time when a vendor or contractor was not meeting security requirements. How did you address the issue and ensure compliance? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Describe your experience supporting continuous monitoring activities for information systems. What metrics, tools, or processes did you use to evaluate system security posture? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Provide an example of a technology modernization effort in which you participated. How did the new technology improve security, efficiency, reliability, or user experience? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How do you stay informed about developments in information technology and cybersecurity? Provide examples of recent trends or technologies you believe will significantly impact organizations in the next three to five years Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Describe your experience evaluating hardware, software, cloud services, or telecommunications solutions before adoption. What criteria did you use to make recommendation? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.