Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelors degree from an accredited university or college. I have an associates degree from an accredited university or college I have a high school diploma/GED certificate. None of the above. 2 I have one (1) year of supervisory experience or have graduated from the DC Courts Management Training Program. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have two (2) or more years of supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Which response best reflects your experience supervising staff? Answer to this question is required I have served as a team or group leader but did not perform all of the functions of a supervisor or manager. I have served as a first-line supervisor but most or all staff decisions had to be approved by my supervisor. I have served as a supervisor with some authority to make decisions concerning my staff. I have served as a supervisor or manager with total authority to make decisions concerning my staff. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your level of experience distributing work assignments to accomplish goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have distributed and monitored work assignments to subordinates to accomplish goals and objectives. I have distributed and monitored work assignments to peers or coworkers to accomplish goals and objectives. I have assisted my supervisor with the distribution of work assignments. None of the above. 6 Select the statements that describe your experience in written communication. Answer to this question is required Developing organizational policy and procedures Preparing technical operating instructions Gathering data and organizing it to be presented Writing technical reports, letters, and memorandums Writing non-technical reports, memos and routine office memorandums Drafting desk procedures for review Preparing external reports, statements, supporting schedules, justifications, and related documentation Completed course work or formal training in written communications None of the above 7 Select the audiences with which you have experience communicating orally. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Judges and Judicial staff Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above 8 With which of the following software programs do you have experience in a professional setting? Select all responses that apply. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Outlook Adobe Case Management Systems Other word processing software Other spreadsheet software Other presentation software Court Recording System None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your level of experience working with judicial staff, court personnel and the general public in a court, legal environment or community service organization or agency? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with judicial staff, court personnel and the general public in a court, legal environment or community service organization providing customer service. I have experience, as a supervisor, working with judicial staff, court personnel and the general public in a court, legal environment or community service organization. My job entailed making recommendations to management on how to resolve problematic issues. I have experience working with judicial staff, court personnel and the general public in a court, legal environment or community service organization as a senior level manager. My job involved complex situations which required problem solving and conflict resolution. None of the above. 10 Select all responses that are true of your duties as a manager and/or supervisor. Answer to this question is required Provide training to staff. Conduct performance evaluations. Review and issue corrective actions. Interview applicants and make hiring recommendations. Nominate employees for recognition and award. Determine the training needs of others. Manage supervisors with direct reports. Prepare statistical reports. Design requirements for statistical reports. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).