Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service which has provided me with the specialized experience in translating, interpreting, or other work using English and the other language. I have a combination of work equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service (that required English and the other language) AND training at the Defense Language Institute, Foreign Service Institute, or comparable training. My experience does not match any of the choices above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 When interpreting consecutively and taking notes, what length of passage are you capable of interpreting? Answer to this question is required One phrase at a time Up to one or two sentences at a time Up to three or four sentences at a time Up to one paragraph of five or six sentences each at a time Up to two or three paragraphs of five or six sentences each at a time Up to four or five paragraphs of five or six sentences each at a time None of the above 4 In which of the following subject area(s) do you interpret on a frequent basis? Answer to this question is required Political Economic Social Legal Scientific Technical Other None of the above 5 Which of the following describe your training in treaty comparison? Answer to this question is required I have no training in treaty comparison Self-study On-the-job training Informal mentoring by professional colleagues Formal course / seminar in treaty comparison None of the above. 6 With which of the following interpreter recruiting activities do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recommending colleagues for assignments. Networking with colleagues, professional associations, and other entities to locate interpreters for specific language combinations. Recruiting interpreters for assignments. None of the above. 7 Select the sources or experiences you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of contemporary politics, economy, international relations, and cultural life of countries in which languages you have translated are spoken (languages other than English and countries other than the United States): Answer to this question is required Academic courses Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly newsmagazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching or listening to news programs Serving as a guide or docent at a cultural institution Writing articles or books on the contemporary politics, economy, international relations, and cultural life Books None of the above 8 With which of the following testing activities do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Test passage selection Test design Designation of error categories Screening r?sum?s of candidates for translation testing Recruiting candidates for translation testing None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience in interpreting from and into English and French? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.