Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which best describes your experience completing tasks in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I work closely with others under direct supervision I work on my own with direct supervision I work on my own with little supervision I work on my own with no supervision None of the above 5 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical / quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools None of the above 6 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organization priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines. I manage multiples tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. As a team / project leader, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with my supervisor, as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above 7 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Students Colleagues Academia Government organizations Congress Foreign audiences Private industry General public Professional organizations None of the above 8 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles None of the above 9 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above. 10 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 13 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which best describes your experience completing tasks in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I work closely with others under direct supervision I work on my own with direct supervision I work on my own with little supervision I work on my own with no supervision None of the above 4 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical / quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organization priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines. I manage multiples tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I am normally capable of resolving the conflicts independently or by involving the team leader or supervisor. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. As a team / project leader, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with my supervisor, as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above 6 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Students Colleagues Academia Government organizations Congress Foreign audiences Private industry General public Professional organizations None of the above 7 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles None of the above 8 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above. 9 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 10 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 12 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.