Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise, develop, and lead a workforce of excellence. ** Supervised, developed and led a workforce of excellence, in doing so, performed these administrative functions: (1) established performance standards, guidelines, &amp; expectations; (2) directed daily operations, assigned work, &amp; evaluated performance &amp; outcomes; (3) provided coaching, mentoring, &amp; informal/formal feedback; (4) resolved employee concerns, complaints, &amp; grievances promptly; (5) advised &amp; counseled staff on work-related &amp; administrative matters; (6) reviewed &amp; approved/denied leave &amp; other personnel actions; (7) oversaw processes to ensure efficiency, compliance, &amp; effectiveness; and (8) communicated organizational goals, priorities, &amp; expectations to align with mission objectives. Answer to this question is required Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised ALL of the activities listed above. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised SEVEN (7) or SIX (6) of the activities listed above. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised FIVE (5) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to conduct data analysis &amp; reporting. ** Ability to apply quantitative &amp; qualitative data collection &amp; analysis techniques to conduct statistical analysis &amp; reporting in the support of the organizational mission. In doing so, performed the following duties: 1)conducted analysis of statistical data &amp; comprehensive evaluations &amp; data analytics of ongoing operations to ensure program goals are met, 2)identified areas where operational efficiency can be enhanced, 3)led team in implementing data systems to gather &amp; analyze data, 4)designed, developed, &amp; utilized data collection instruments, 5)identified &amp; utilized efficient methods, best practices, analysis techniques, &amp; tools to capture relevant financial data, 6) utilized data visualization techniques to communicate data graphically to management for decision making, 7)finalized findings &amp; make recommendations; 8)presented results &amp; report findings, 9)analyzed emerging technology, &amp; 10)conducted surveys &amp; analyzed results. Answer to this question is required Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed ALL of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed at least SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions. ** Developed, planned, and analyzed strategies necessary to coordinate and solve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely identified and analyzed highly complex or unusual issues having a significant impact on program administration in a library or other cultural heritage institution. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and assured that program goals were met and that policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. Identified and analyzed issues having a significant impact on program administration in a professional setting. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions and made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Ensured program goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. As part of a team, performed a key role in analyzing and resolving issues having a significant impact on program administration in a professional setting. Evaluated facts and alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions and made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Conveyed the results of the analysis and information through briefings, consultations, and presentations. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to groups inside the organization, handling major office issues. Worked well and cooperated with others (financial staff, consultants, business executives, agency/organization heads, and program officials) to provide guidance and aid to managers pertaining to regular and end-of-year assessments of the status of budget operating plans and influence others to accept or implement findings and recommendations on organizational improvements or program effectiveness. Answer to this question is required As a PRIMARY job responsibility, ROUTINELY performed liaison and consultation duties and served as the primary contact providing guidance and aid to a wide variety of individuals on budget and financial matters such as those pertaining to regular and end-of-year assessments of the status of budget operating plans. Influenced others to accept or implement findings and recommendations on organizational improvements or program effectiveness. Independently worked directly with a diverse community of internal and external colleagues and clients (e.g., staff, management, consultants, contractors, or business executives and others). As a PRIMARY job responsibility, ROUTINELY performed liaison and consultation duties to assist the primary contact in providing guidance and aid to a wide variety of individuals on budget and financial matters, such as those pertaining to regular and end-of-year assessments of the status of budget operating plans. Influenced others to accept or implement findings and recommendations on organizational improvements or program effectiveness. Under general supervision, worked with a diverse community of internal and external colleagues and clients (e.g., staff, management, consultants, contractors, or business executives and others). As a PRIMARY job responsibility, OCCASIONALLY performed liaison and consultation duties to assist the primary contact in providing guidance and aid to a wide variety of individuals on budget and financial matters, such as those pertaining to regular and end-of-year assessments of the status of budget operating plans. Collaborated regularly with co-workers in order to complete work. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Ability to write clear, cogent, accurate well organized, and&nbsp;&nbsp;understandable documents such as:&nbsp;&nbsp;1) policies and procedures, 2) requirements documents, 3) feasibility studies,&nbsp;&nbsp;4) meeting notes and action items, 5) research&nbsp;&nbsp;materials, 6) SOW/RFP, 7) implementation plans, 8) system development life cycle documents, 9) project and/or operational status reports, and 10) analysis on industry/technology issues and trends. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared ALL of the above. Independently prepared EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above. Independently prepared SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).