Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your educational/experience which meets the Basic Requirements for the Accountant occupation.&nbsp; NOTE: TRANSCRIPTS MUST BE SUBMITTED AT THE TIME OF APPLICATION. Answer to this question is required I have earned a Bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law) I have at least 4 years of experience in auditing/accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination. I have at least 4 years of experience in auditing/accounting, or a combination of auditing/accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I understand that my experience/education will be reviewed by at least 2 professional accountants to verify that (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing; and (b) I possess the required professional auditing/accounting knowledge, skills and abilities. I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and experience as listed in the selections above. 2 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 12 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience developing and&nbsp;analyzing GAAP-based financial statements; performing agency or corporate technical accounting transactions; preparing audit deliverables, and leading projects related to accounting transactions and studies.&nbsp; 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 9 I understand that in order to be considered non-competitively I must include a copy of my SF-50.&nbsp;The SF-50 must show the highest grade level or full performance level I have attained competitively on a permanent basis, and the grade must be equivalent to or higher than the grade for which I am applying.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).