Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a valid, unexpired Class B Commercial Driver's License (CDL)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 4 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who maintain or repair vehicles? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who maintain or repair vehicles to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who maintain or repair vehicles as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who maintain or repair vehicles. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 5 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for performing vehicle repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who operate vehicles? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who operate motor vehicles to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who operate motor vehicles as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who operate motor vehicles. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 7 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 8 Do you have valid DOT physical card on file with your local Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducing vehicle inspections to ensure proper operation. Answer to this question is required I have independently inspected vehicle systems to identify maintenance or repairs needed. I have inspected vehicle systems under the direction of a mechanic. I have inspected vehicle parts under the direction of a mechanic. I have completed training on the techniques for vehicle inspection, but have not applied this on the job. I do not have experience inspecting vehicles. 10 Have you completed coursework or training on automotive repair techniques (e.g., Auto shop, Vocational training)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Choose the statements that describe your driver competencies. Answer to this question is required Maneuvers vehicles in narrow and congested areas such as between buildings and other vehicles. Operates vehicles over a variety of roads and grades in all types of driving conditions. Selects and changes gears according to road and traffic conditions, speed, and vehicle requirements. Operates special purpose accessory equipment following safety procedures and precautions. Uses the power takeoff device to transfer engine power to the equipment. Manipulates a variety of controls, understands equipment gauges. Loads, distributes weight, and secures materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Pre-plans route to follow; takes in consideration clearance of underpasses, overhead power lines, weight limitations, highway restrictions, and alternate bypass routes. Makes judgments concerning turning radius, braking distance, and distance to be maintained from other vehicles. None of the above. 12 Which instructions have you interpreted to maintain or repair vehicles? Answer to this question is required Machine operation manuals Vehicle specifications Vehicle maintenance schedules Safety procedures Vehicle operation manuals None of the above 13 Which information have you read to operate motor vehicles? Answer to this question is required Traffic laws Defensive driving manuals Traffic signs Vehicle specifications Safety procedures Trip log instructions Vehicle operation manuals None of the above 14 Do you have Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the statement that best describes your ability to troubleshoot problems with heavy duty machinery, engines, parts and systems; to include detecting faulty items, determining causes of malfunction, best repair methods; and assembling, disassembling, repairing or modifying components and systems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 16 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which response most closely matches your highest level of experience managing inventories of tools, equipment, or building system maintenance supplies? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing an inventory. I have inventoried tools and equipment under the direction of others. I ordered tools or equipment to ensure adequate supplies. I used inventories to forecast budgets for shop or maintenance supplies. 18 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience using a computer to document your work responsibilities. Answer to this question is required I created and updated computerized work orders to document the work I performed. I retrieved computerized work orders created by others to document the work I performed. I printed paper copies of computerized work orders created by others to perform my work. I have not used a computerized work order system. 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.