Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with digitizing museum collections and creating high quality reproductions for the public? Answer to this question is required I have experience in a museum or archives digitizing museum collections and using digital imaging software to create high quality reproductions for publication or exhibition. I have experience digitizing museum collections and working with digital assets in a museum or archives. I have assisted in the digitization of photographic material and museum collections. I have coursework and training in the use of digital imaging equipment for museum collections. I have no experience with digitization of museum collections. 3 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to coordinate photography assignments and communicate effectively with multiple departments to arrange and photograph museum objects? Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating photography assignments in a professional photo studio or photographic services in a museum or archives. I have assisted in coordinating photography assignments in a museum or archives. I have experience working in a photo studio or photographic services in a museum or archives. I have no experience coordinating photography assignments. 4 Which statement best describes your experience with digital imaging technology in museums including defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process? Answer to this question is required I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and have defined system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducted assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and established controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and familiarity with defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducting assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums. I have no experience with digital imaging technology in museums. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your use of metadata to describe digital objects and their application to archival and collections management situations in order to create, manage, maintain and preserve archival information in databases. Answer to this question is required I have used metadata to describe digital objects and their application to archival and collections management situations to create, manage, maintain and preserve archival information in databases. I have had education and/or training in the use of metadata to describe digital objects and their application to archival collections management situations. I have supervised and provided instruction in the use of metadata to describe digital objects and their application to archival and collections management in order to create, manage maintain and preserve archival information in databases. I have no knowledge of the use of metadata. 6 Which statement best describes your experience with digital imaging technology including defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process? Answer to this question is required I have experience using digital imaging technology in a professional context and have defined system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support photography initiatives and objectives in a cultural organization; conducted assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and established controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience using digital imaging technology in a professional context and am familiar with system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support photography initiatives and objectives in an organization; I have assisted with assessing current and emerging equipment and software and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience using digital imaging technology in a professional context and am familiar with the necessary system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your experience working in a museum photography and digital imaging studio? Answer to this question is required I have overseen the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio including monitoring the photography and other digital imaging of other staff and/or contractors, assisting with the planning and management of the work to meet project schedules, helping to develop budgets for equipment, supplies, and contract services; and drafting user guides, standards, guidelines, and workflows for museum photography and other digital imaging. I have assisted with the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have not worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking, all while maintaining good customer service and meeting various deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have experience working under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur, while maintaining a customer service focus, meeting deadlines, and solving program issues concurrently. I have experience working under pressure to complete accurate, timely, and technically sound work while providing good customer service focus and meeting deadlines. I have experience accomplishing tasks while maintaining good customer service. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience using specialized photographic and digital imaging equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience using 35mm and medium format digital cameras in studio and location settings and experience using advanced digital image capture and editing software to produce well-lit, focused, visually captivating, and publication-quality photographic images of museum subjects, including collections, exhibitions, events, activities, facilities and people. I have experience using 35mm and medium format digital cameras in both studio and location settings to produce photographic images, but not in a museum setting. I have experience using digital cameras in either studio or location settings to produce photographic images. I have experience operating digital cameras to produce photographic images gained through course work or independent study. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you done in making decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in making decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.