Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e. , objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have conducted interviews utilizing a structured interview assessment instrument on psychiatric inpatients; and/or I have administered neuropsychological tests to hospital patients and summarized their results; and/or I have administered and scored psychological testing instruments to research subjects in a validation study or any other research project. I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have scored psychological tests and written results summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions and his/her use within the context of a formal treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted psychotherapy with sexual offenders at a clinic for persons with sexual disorders; and/or I have co-facilitated treatment groups in a program for persons with eating disorders; and/or I have co-facilitated a treatment plan on a behavior management unit for disruptive or violent psychiatric patients. I have supervised therapists in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as the supervising psychologist in a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients; and/or I have directed services for mentally ill offenders in an inpatient or outpatient setting. I have co-facilitated a skills training group in a structured treatment program for a specialized population; and/or I have worked as a therapist in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team in an inpatient treatment unit for specialized populations, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patient providing clinical recommendations for individualized treatment. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have facilitated a psychotherapy group in a correctional setting; and/or I have led a research group which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality within a wide variety setting. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or group setting; and/or I have facilitated a non-correctional psychotherapy group. I have co-facilitated psychotherapy groups with a doctoral level psychologist; and/or I have conducted individual psychotherapy sessions and reported findings to a supervisor; and/or I have developed and implemented behavioral management plans for disruptive psychiatric inpatients. None of the above. 10 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving a patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have reacted appropriately to a medical emergency by performing assessments for as needed treatment; and/or I have calmed someone who was upset; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have assisted others during a crisis situation. None of the above. 11 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of sex offenders. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follow the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided psychotherapy services or conducted mental health evaluations of justice-involved persons; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a community-based practice that treats sexual offenders; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation. Note: Continuing professional education courses (for CE credit) do not meet this criterion. I have completed a primary rotation on sex offender evaluation or treatment as a pre-doctoral intern; and/or I have completed a postdoctoral internship providing clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offender treatment program; and/or during a formal practicum, I have co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offender treatment program. I have been employed as a psychotherapist in a prison-based, residential treatment program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided direct clinical services at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator who provided the oversight of direct clinical services in an outpatient sex offender evaluation unit; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed sex offenders. None of the above. 12 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. I have provided services to behaviorally disordered juveniles; and/or I have provided supervision of a group of behavioral management specialists providing care and management of developmentally disabled persons at a group home; and/or I have led a community case management program for chronically mentally ill persons. I have provided clinical training to peer or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have scored psychological tests and written results summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., personality inventories intelligence tests, criminal thinking inventories, neurological screening tests, vocational assessments) and at least one type of sex-offender specific test (i.e., STATIC 99, SORAG, SVR-20, Sonar, MnSOST, RRASOR, Multiphasic Sex Inventory, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, Penile Plethysmograph); and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results including at least one type of sex-offender specific test; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessment which included at least one type of sex-offender specific test (i.e., STATIC 99, SORAG, SVR-20, Sonar, MnSOST, RRASOR, Multiphasic Sex Inventory, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, Penile Plethysmograph). I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have coordinated a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions and his/her use within the context of a formal treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated a skills training group in a structured treatment program for a specialized population; and/or I have worked as a therapist in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team in an inpatient treatment unit for specialized populations, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients providing clinical recommendations for individualized treatment. I have supervised therapists in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as the supervising psychologist in a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients, who supervised staff and provided direct clinical services; and/or I have directed services for mentally ill offenders in an inpatient or outpatient setting. I have served as a director of a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for sex offenders performing administrative duties, supervision of staff and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have developed and supervised a skills-based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients; and/or I have served as coordinator for a specialized treatment program in an inpatient or forensic setting providing supervision and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have created and oversaw an outpatient treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a cognitive-behavioral therapy group in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted individual, cognitive-behaviorally based psychotherapy with sex offenders in a forensic setting; and/or I have maintained an individual/group caseload of sex offenders in an outpatient setting providing cognitive-behaviorally oriented interventions. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or group setting; and/or I have facilitated a non-correctional psychotherapy group. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have facilitated a psychotherapy group in a correctional setting; and/or I have led a research group which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality within a wide variety setting. None of the above. 10 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving a patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self- harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by providing an evidenced based treatment intervention as dictated by a treatment plan for an inmate on suicide watch; and/or I have determined whether an inmate’s condition is severe or chronic enough to warrant a referral to the Department of Mental Health; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with inmates with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have trained correctional staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. 11 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of sex offenders. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follow the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a forensic examiner with a specialization in sex offenders for criminal courts; and/or I have conducted risk assessments of sex offenders as a component of civil commitment proceedings; and/or I have performed psychosexual assessments of sex offenders in the context of a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted psychological evaluations on civilly-committed sex offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment for sex offenders. I have been employed as a psychotherapist in a prison-based, residential treatment program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided direct clinical services at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator who provided the oversight of direct clinical services in an outpatient sex offender evaluation unit; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed sex offenders. I have completed a primary rotation on sex offender evaluation or treatment as a pre-doctoral intern; and/or I have completed a postdoctoral internship providing clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offender treatment program. None of the above. 12 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to peer or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training, supervision and mentoring to staff in a community-based or correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with policy and best practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).