Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. 4 The National Inmate Appeals Administrator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the General Public to High Level Officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact and persuade others on the mission and objective of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed superiors on administrative remedies and/or the disciplinary hearing officer process, or federal sentencing matters; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations for executive level employees on federal sentencing matters; and/or I have mentored/taught in regards to administrative remedies/or disciplinary hearing officer processes, or federal sentencing matters; and/or I have provided direction to subordinates or co-workers in the processing of administrative remedies requests; and/or I have gave formal presentations as a subject matter expert at community events or national conferences. I have prepared and presented findings and recommendations to upper management regarding controversial issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures interacted with other federal agency personnel or state or local personnel; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have completed a public speaking course. None of the above. 5 The National Inmate Appeals Administrator is responsible for&nbsp;developing, evaluating and implementing policies that ensure efficient management of operation and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau requirements, objectives and goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with streamlining local policies/procedures; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the financial management office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of a division/unit/office. I have managed/oversaw the administrative remedies/correctional program or disciplinary hearing process; and/or I have chaired a program or operational review or comparable internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have participated as a member of a team in evaluating and analyzing local issues and recommended methods of resolution; and/or I have chaired a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals; and/or I have analyzed and devised solution for special need which surfaced within an agency/organization. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. None of the above. 6 The National Inmate Appeals Administrator is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned division programs, the coordination of the mission of the section and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations.&nbsp;He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations or performance logs; and/or I have adjusted staff duties and assignments; and/or I have directed the work of subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have solicited individual needs assessment requests for staff; and/or I have recommended an employee participate in staff mentoring program; and/or I have suggested employee pursue collateral duty assignment outside of their assigned discipline. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. None of the above. 7 The National Inmate Appeals Administrator must possess a thorough knowledge of the administrative remedies program which allows them to review inmate appeals of institution and regional decisions. He/she must be able to evaluate, develop and implement policies that ensure efficient management of division/institution operations and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau requirements, objectives and goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed investigation reports to determine if a violation was committed; and/or I have imposed a penalty in accordance with 28 CFR 541; and/or I have ensured procedural requirements were followed in a unit disciplinary committee hearing; and/or I have attended a release preparation class. I have determined action steps by researching policy and regulations to identify requirements applicable to an unusual case; and/or I have researched regulations to identify best corrective action for resolution of procedural error; and/or I have researched and applied judicial rulings governing the factual basis of the cases to be decided. I have identified and incorporated key personnel from multiple agencies or disciplines needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have addressed and implemented intra-agency or multi-disciplinary programs focused on successful offender appeals; and/or I have resolved conflicting priorities among multi-agency stakeholders and achieved program goals. None of the above. 8 The National Inmate Appeals Administrator prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups, etc.&nbsp;The National Inmate Appeals Administrator must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, line staff and the general public.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written investigative reports; and/or I have written a legal brief; and/or I have written inmate progress reports for the court or parole board; and/or I have written a new institution supplement describing technical procedures; and/or I have written a record of decision and disposition of a hearing); and/or I have documented findings as a participant of a Program Review, or comparable external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums, and prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document/correspondence or a memorandum for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates for clarity, grammar and content. I have prepared briefing papers and materials in support of policy initiatives or articulating organizational performance; and/or I have prepared a briefing paper related to the administrative remedies or the disciplinary hearing officer processes; and/or I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide which explained laws or regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by an agency/organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).