Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following systems and software have you used for financial management and planning? Answer to this question is required Department or agency financial management system Automated allotment system Human resources system Acquisition system Receivables system Reimbursement system Inventory system Asset management system Automated budget formulation system Payroll system None of the above. 4 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with financial management? Answer to this question is required I have brought in resources to finance the work of an organization or unit. I have allocated/managed resources throughout an organization. I have allocated/managed resources throughout a major division. I have allocated/managed resources throughout a work unit. I have set and kept to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have analyzed budgets presented to me for my review. I have no practical experience with financial management. 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system. As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system. I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above. 8 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 9 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 11 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience coding documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations in preparation for data entry into an integrated personnel / payroll computer system: Answer to this question is required I have experience coding the full range of Federal personnel actions for data entry into a personnel / payroll system including new appointments, separations, benefits, position changes, pay changes and awards. I have experience coding a limited range of Federal personnel actions (e.g. benefits and awards) for data entry into a personnel / payroll system. I have experience in a non-Federal HR office coding personnel / payroll action documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations for data entry into an HR / personnel automated personnel computer system. I have limited experience in a non-Federal HR office coding personnel / payroll action documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations for data entry into an HR / personnel automated computer system. I have no experience, training or education with coding documents in preparation for data entry in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations. 12 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in reviewing work performed by others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education reviewing work performed by others. I some experience reviewing work performed by others. I have performed tasks that involved reviewing work performed by others with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently reviewed work performed by others. I am highly skilled at reviewing work performed by others. I have trained or overseen others in this activity or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 16 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 17 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 18 Which of the following BEST describes your experience gathering and assembling facts, and drawing conclusions for senior leadership? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in gathering and assembling facts, or drawing conclusions for senior leadership. I have completed formal education or training in gathering and assembling facts, and drawing conclusions for senior leadership. However, I have no experience applying this in work situations. I have gathered and assembled facts, and drawn conclusions for senior leadership on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have gathered and assembled facts, and drawn conclusions for senior leadership as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I am considered an expert in gathering and assembling facts, and drawing conclusions for senior leadership. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in performing this task because of my expertise. 19 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 20 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.