Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have at least one (1) year of specialized experience in employee relations concepts, rules, regulations, policies, and practices that was equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in Federal service? Such experience must have provided comprehensive human resources (HR) management advisory services, technical guidance, and policy recommendations to managers and journeyman level HR Specialists. Answer to this question is required Yes 1) Experience in providing advice involving regulatory requirements, agency policies and practices to effect disciplinary actions, removals and suspensions and resolving grievances, appeals and other employee relations matters. 2) Experience researching facts and legal precedents to define the parameters of labor and employee relations cases 3) Experience in providing formal leader training on employee relations issues to ensure management readiness related to employee relations matters. 4) Experience providing strong analytical skills to leverage knowledge in employment law and fact-based data to provide sound counsel and coaching with a demonstrated track record of exceptional client service delivery. 5) Experience leading people and achieving buy-in to advance organizational goals to drive effective results. No 2 Do you have experience supervising or managing a workforce that provided improved services to customers balancing organizational goals and budget constraints? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 3 Select employee relations duties and responsibilities that you have performed at the GS-13 grade level or at a comparable level of proficiency. Answer to this question is required Researched precedent case law, regulations, practices, and procedures related to a range of employee relations program areas in response to complex and unique situations. Identified new developments and trends in case law and court decisions and evaluated the impact on existing employee relations programs. Served as key advisor to management in agency performance management systems, pay and leave administration, and hours of work. Served as an agency representative and technical expert in third party hearings related to adverse actions, performance-based actions, and grievances. Developed and provided training on a variety of employee relations topics for managers and professional development of internal Employee Relations staff. Provided advice and assistance to developing sustainable corrective actions to address performance and conduct issues in the workplace. Advised and assisted senior management regarding complex and sensitive employee relations matters. None of the Above 4 Select employee relations concepts, principles, and practices that you have applied at the GS-13 grade level or at a comparable level of proficiency. Answer to this question is required Performance Management Disciplinary Actions and the Douglas Factors Attendance and Leave Guidelines Incentive Awards Program Requirements Third Party Proceedings Standard Administrative/Appellate Case Litigation Forums, Processes, and Requirements Administrative and Negotiated Grievance Procedures (NGP) None of the Above 5 Choose the highest level at which you have applied your knowledge and expertise in employee relations principles, procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies. Answer to this question is required Provided expert consultation to internal and external managers on complex and controversial employee relations matters. Used expert knowledge in employee relations to develop new approaches to resolve technical problems. Evaluated, incorporated, and communicated the latest developments in employee relations matters through agency guidelines and criteria. Provided technical expertise in the design and implementation of agency-wide projects regarding employee relations matters. Advised staff on solutions to complex employee relations problems, projects, and programs. None of the Above 6 Which of the following labor relations tasks do you perform on a regular and recurring basis? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Analyze problems to identify specific concerns and issues; develop solutions. Develop a good working relationship with management, employees and union representatives. Communicate information clearly and concisely to individuals or small groups. Present information orally to large groups. Compose formal reports and detailed memos and letters with a description of findings, conclusions and recommendations. Union negotiations. Counsel managers, supervisors and employees. Testify or represent management in arbitration cases and formal and informal hearings. Present formal labor relations training for supervisors. None of the above. 7 Select the statements that illustrate your written communication skills. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and approved for final release employee relations case correspondence. Ensured that the documents were properly developed, well written, and met technical, legal sufficiency, and merit standards. Drafted new instructions, directives, policies, and procedures to serve as operational program guidance. Wrote complex disciplinary and adverse actions, Congressional responses, and information for third party proceedings. Prepared briefings and presentations on employee relations programs and initiatives. None of the Above 8 Have you written employee relations policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 9 Have you delivered presentations to explain organizational policies and procedures to employees and management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 10 Choose the statements that demonstrate your oral communication skills. Answer to this question is required Empowered, motivated, and guided others. Led or introduced change initiatives. Consulted with internal and external partners to meet requirements and achieve organizational goals. Clearly articulated, presented, and promoted ideas and issues before a diversity of audiences. Assisted management in determining appropriate steps, options, and penalties in disciplinary cases. Conducted interviews to elicit information. None of the Above 11 Choose the illustrations that describe how you identify and analyze problems, generate alternative solutions, and recommend corrective actions. Answer to this question is required Improved organizational efficiency by developing, planning, and implementing a multi-tier solution to complex or unprecedented problems. Combined information from internal and external sources to develop an action plan addressing program issues. Addressed systemic barriers inhibiting the achievement of results by forming teams to conduct focus groups and develop solutions. Applied appropriate methodology to discover or identify policy issues and resource concerns. Reconciled conflicting and incomplete information to develop solutions. None of the Above 12 Do you have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in the federal service in labor relations or labor negotiations with unions that possessed collective bargaining agreements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do you have at least one (1) year of experience with assisting management with review of union grievances related to a collective bargaining agreement and/or provided support to management for unfair labor practices disputes? Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal' style='margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: normal; background: white;'&gt;&lt;span style='font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Roboto; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #212121; border: none windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in; mso-font-kerning: 0pt; mso-ligatures: none;'&gt;Answer to this question is required.&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/p&gt; Yes No 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other 14.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.