Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 This posting is open exclusively to current and former federal employees therefore submission of an SF-50 is required to verify eligibility for consideration. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your SF-50 into the "SF-50" slot. Failure to submit this document will result in disqualification from review. Answer to this question is required I understand that this vacancy announcement is exclusively open to current and former federal employees and that I am required to submit an SF-50 with my application. I understand that failure to submit this document will render my application ineligible for review. 4 Knowledge of federal laws and regulations related to misconduct that govern corrective, disciplinary, and adverse actions for federal government employees.** Applied knowledge of federal laws and regulations and an agency&rsquo;s practices, procedures, policies, and guidelines in providing advice to management and developing written documentation to address the following matters: 1) corrective actions such as counseling memoranda; 2) disciplinary actions such as reprimands and suspensions; 3) adverse actions such as separations, terminations, and demotions; 4) emergency situations involving disruptive or destructive staff; and 5) medical inability to perform essential functions. Answer to this question is required Independently interpreted and applied applicable federal employee relations statutes, regulations, and case law, as well as an agency’s collective bargaining agreements, and utilized an agency’s practices, procedures, policies and guidelines to provide advice to management, up to and including senior managers, and develop the required written documentation to address ALL of the matters listed above in a unionized agency. Independently interpreted and applied applicable federal employee relations statutes, regulations, and case law, and utilized an agency’s practices, procedures, policies and guidelines to provide advice to management, and develop the required written documentation to address ALL of the matters listed above. Independently interpreted and applied applicable federal employee relations statutes, regulations, and case law, and utilized an agency’s practices, procedures, policies and guidelines to provide advice to management, and develop the required written documentation to address at least TWO of the matters listed above. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide seasoned consultation regarding the application of the Douglas Factors.** Provided employee relations assistance and consultation to agency managers regarding application of the Douglas Factors. Answer to this question is required Advised and educated management, up to and including senior managers, in the application of the Douglas Factors in unique and challenging employee relations adverse actions. Composed thorough Douglas Factors documentation in cases where there were no comparators and/or where comparator analysis was highly complex and nuanced. Advised and educated management, up to and including senior managers, in the application of the Douglas Factors in routine employee relations adverse actions. Composed thorough Douglas Factors documentation in a variety of routine cases. Advised and educated management in the application of the Douglas Factors in routine employee relations adverse actions. Revised and edited Douglas Factors documentation to ensure consistency with applicable regulations, agency precedent, and case law. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to provide expert level guidance to management on performance-based actions utilizing knowledge of federal laws and regulations and an agency&rsquo;s policies, procedures and practices. Applied knowledge of federal laws and regulations and a federal agency&rsquo;s employee relations practices, procedures, policies, and guidelines related to the following: 1) assigning less than successful/satisfactory performance ratings; 2) denial of within-grade increases; 3) performance counseling; 4) performance improvement plans; and 5) performance-based adverse actions. Answer to this question is required Independently interpreted and applied applicable federal statutes, regulations, and case law, as well as an agency’s collective bargaining agreements, and provided advice to management on ALL of the matters listed above for employees in a unionized agency. Independently interpreted and applied applicable federal statutes, regulations, and case law, and provided advice to management on at least ALL of the matters listed above for employees in a non-unionized agency. With minimal supervision, interpreted and applied applicable federal statutes, regulations, and case law, and provided advice to management on at least FOUR (4) of the matters listed above. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).