Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 2 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 3 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to develop long-range strategies? Answer to this question is required I have education or training in developing long-range strategies, but have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have education, training, and/or experience in developing long-range strategies and have applied this knowledge on the job with supervision. I have experience, training and education in developing long-range strategies and have independently applied these skills on the job. I am considered an expert in developing long-range strategies, and have independently applied and instructed or trained others in this aspect of the job. None of the above. 4 I have performed the following project management tasks. (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Developed a comprehensive plan that included a project timeline and allocation of duties Assured accuracy of technical details by consulting with relevant experts Developed or approved project budget and/or forecast Negotiated project details with external individuals or organizations Tracked project progress Managed project staffing Served as a technical consultant and assisted in resolving technical issues Drafted and submitted progress reports Managed project's conclusion None of the above 5 Establish and monitor performance measures to assess the effectiveness, efficiency, and progress of a program in meeting its plans, goals, and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 7 Please indicate which of the following BEST describes your experience planning and organizing work to achieve goals of a program or organization: Answer to this question is required I have planned, developed and implemented programs with organizational scope and impact; managing work teams and/or advisory groups in the overall design of systems and programs. I have established annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans for an organizational component; setting goals and objectives; planning for short and long term resource needs. I have set goals and/or planned work to be accomplished by others; set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have planned and organized my own work assignments against deadlines assigned by my supervisor; often handlilng several work assignments at the same time. None of the above. 8 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 9 Which of the following leadership functions have you preformed in work units or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience as a supervisor or manager developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience as a supervisor or manager developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office. I have experience as a team leader developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch or office but not as a supervisor or manager. I have assisted as a member of a team with developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office. I do not have experience developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch or office. 11 Choose the statement that BEST describes your experience in writing instructions, guidance, procedures, justifications, directives and guidelines for implementation of regulatory and procedural material. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 13 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes. I have education or training in contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes with supervision. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes as part of a team. I have independently applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes. 14 Which of the following regulations or directives do you have experience interpreting and applying? Answer to this question is required Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) Foreign Affairs Manuals and Handbooks ( FAM / FAH) General Services Administration (GSA) Regulations Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Comptroller General Decisions Dept of State Acquisition Regulations (DoSAR) None of the above 15 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Answer to this question is required Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 16 Please select any of the following in which you have experience and knowledge: Answer to this question is required Fixed-price contracts Cost contracts Use of special contract provisions and incentives Installation support services and related regulatory requirements Development of contract specifications (i.e. Statements of Work) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.