Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experiences/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic education requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an accredited college or university in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I have specialized experience required for the position. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Do you have experience performing conservation tasks, including evaluating and developing treatment plans, for a wide range of natural history collections, including paleontological specimens and sensitive anthropological objects under minimal direction from conservators? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have expertise and knowledge of established methods and techniques of mount making for museum artifacts for any of the following: Answer to this question is required Safe exhibition, photographic documentation and storage of historic objects of great value and significance (all of these) Safe exhibitions (only) Limited experience with mount making methods and techniques None of the above 5 Which of the following materials have you utilized to fabricate conservation grade museum mounts/brackets for specimens and objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used brass in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have used steel in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have used aluminum in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have used acrylic in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have used glass in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have used fabrics in the fabrication of conservation grade museum mounts/brackets I have no experience fabricating conservation grade museum mounts/brackets from the listed materials 6 Which of the following tools have you worked with in the production of conservation grade materials for temporary/permanent display of museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Stationary wood/plastic working tools (table saws, band saws, planers/jointers, panel saws) Stationary metal forming tools (press brake, metal shear, roll and form benders) Stationary metal milling tools (2 or 3 axis mills) Brazing tools (oxygen and acetylene torches, flux, pickling acids, neutralizing agents) Welding tools (MIG welding, TIG welding, grinding and surface preparation equipment) Handheld metal forming/shaping tools (hammers, anvils, forming pliers, files) None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with selecting materials and designing museum quality mounts? Answer to this question is required I have independently researched and proposed specific conservation approved materials for mount construction with minimal direction from conservators. I have selected materials that are generally considered conservation approved for mount construction under the direction of museum conservators. I have worked with materials selected by others. None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with designing museum quality mounts that balance design aesthetics with mount function. Answer to this question is required I have independently established cohesive aesthetics of museum quality mounts under general direction from designers, including in the absence of detailed design drawings. I have maintained cohesive aesthetics of museum quality mounts established by others or under the general direction of designers, I have only worked under the explicit direction of designers or from detailed design drawings. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in the development and execution of object movement plans? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed and executed object movement plans in collaboration with conservation and collections staff, including leading group efforts for large or complex objects. I have executed object movement plans developed by conservation and collections staff, including assisting group efforts for large or complex objects. I have assisted in the execution of movement plans supervised by others. None of the above. 10 Which of the following tools have you used on a regular basis for the movement of large and delicate collections objects? Add: (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Rigging equipment (ropes, straps, chains, gantry, chain falls) Manual lifting equipment (crow bars lifting straps, J-bars) Pneumatic lifting equipment (furniture jacks, bottle jacks, pump wedges) Forklifts Scissor Lifts Single-person lifts I have not used any of the tools listed for the movement of large and delicate collections objects on a regular basis. 11 Have you mounted or re-housed objects in liquid storage (aka wet mounting) for exhibition? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following tools and techniques have you used in the production of lifelike models and other interpretive exhibit materials? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Traditional casting and mold making techniques (using plaster, resins, epoxies) Handheld 3D scanners CAD software for interpretive sculpting (Z-brush, Blender, Maya) Industrial additive manufacturing (large build volume FDM or resin-based 3D printers) None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with the repair and reproduction of original exhibit parts that have been broken or damaged? Answer to this question is required Considerable experience and examples of using a variety of art and fabrication materials (including epoxy, plastics, wood, metal, plaster, acrylic, etc.) with a wide variety of hand tools, power tools and shop machinery to repair or replicate exhibit components, artwork, models or woodwork. Limited experience and examples of using a variety of art and fabrication materials (including epoxy, plastics, wood, metal, plaster, acrylic, etc.) with a wide variety of hand tools, power tools and shop machinery to repair or replicate exhibit components, artwork, models or woodwork. Familiarity with variety of art and fabrication materials (including epoxy, plastics, wood, metal, plaster, acrylic, etc.) with a wide variety of hand tools, power tools and shop machinery to repair or replicate exhibit components, artwork, models or woodwork. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.