Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-15: Choose one answer that BEST describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. My qualifying specialized experience demonstrates that I possess the particular knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies described under the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. I do not meet the experience requirement described above. 2 Please provide examples of your qualifying experience which supports your response. (Do not paste your resume in this space.) Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience related to interior design? Answer to this question is required Programming of interior facility requirements. Space planning commercial and residential facilities. Budgeting interior design projects. Scheduling tasks to align with project deadlines. Designing and reviewing construction projects. Specification of furniture and furnishings. Specification of interior finish materials and millwork. Procurement of furniture and furnishings. Shipping, installation, and punch list of furniture and furnishings. Project design presentations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed as an interior designer? Answer to this question is required Managed a furniture budget exceeding one million dollars. Developed and managed a furniture budget integrating existing furniture with new. Developed and reviewed subcontracts for services or products. Developed and reviewed scopes of work for contractors. Created a schedule which aligned interior design tasks with the construction schedule. Created requisitions for procurement of furniture and furnishings. None of the above 5 Which of the following tools do you have experience using independently in the context of a construction project? Answer to this question is required Submittal reviews Shop drawings Specifications (CSI) Architectural finish materials Details Elevations Sections Architectural and interior design floor plans Mechanical and electrical engineering plans Security engineering plans Lighting and power data plans None of the above 6 Which of the following do you have experience creating or using independently as an interior designer? Answer to this question is required Space Plans Elevations Sections Details Reflected Ceiling Plans Mechanical and Electrical Plans Security engineering plans Shop drawings None of the above 7 Which of the following tasks describes your work experience regarding the technical knowledge of Interior Design? Answer to this question is required Ensuring the interior design is an efficient, high-performing space that incorporates elements of modularity, flexibility, and sustainability. Ensuring all projects include appropriate, dignified, and comfortable work spaces that are conducive to performing the function required. Utilizing durable fixtures, furnishings, and equipment that can be easily designed, installed, reconfigured, and maintained (e.g., the use of raised floors, fewer permanent walls, and standard furniture system modules to facilitate reconfiguration, when required). Incorporating end users` physical and technological needs now and for the foreseeable future into all interior designs. Accommodating a mix of activities, including a broader range of work spaces for focused work, and appropriate areas for collaboration, allowing activities to occur concurrently with minimal disruption. Emphasizing access to daylight and views, where possible, to allow for visual and acoustical privacy when needed. Utilizing high-performance lighting fixtures, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, and acoustic components. Ensuring interior materials can withstand local environmental conditions. Applying egress and other life-safety requirements related to interior space planning. Integrating systems furniture with power and telecommunications. Using interior design computer programs (e.g., Autocad, Revit). None of the above. 8 Which of the following building codes have you applied at work? Answer to this question is required Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) Uniform Building Code (UBC) International Building Code (IBC) Architectural Barriers Act (ABA) None of the above 9 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of work experience working in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I have held a leadership position (e.g., team leader, project manager) and was responsible for leading a team to meet common goals and/or complete projects. I have worked in team environments and, only in the absence of the team leader / manager, I have led a team to meet project goals. I work effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I do not have experience working as part of a team to meet common goals. 10 In what way(s) have you interacted with others in a work environment? Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to others. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques. Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Interacted professionally in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Negotiated with officials outside my organization on contractual issues. None of the above. 11 Which response reflects your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others in a work, academic, or volunteer setting? Answer to this question is required I have no prior experience of this nature. I have partnered with one person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers, each of whom had a designated separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. In a supervisory or leadership capacity, I have created an atmosphere for teamwork, cooperation, and productivity which had positive impact. 12 Please indicate the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units / organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex project. None of the above 13 Which tasks related to contracting have you performed in an international setting? Answer to this question is required Written contract scope(s) of work Determining government contract estimates Selecting private contractors to perform work Managing private contractors for the duration of a contract Performing quality assurance audits / reviews Reviewing and approving payments to contractors Approves, rejects, or changes contract to ensure adherence with established specifications None of the above 14 Indicate the contract-related roles that you have held in a work setting. Answer to this question is required Contracting Officer Contract Specialist Contracting Officer`s Representative (ARCO / COR / COTR) Alternate COR (A/COR) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.