Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Applicants must address the following mandatory qualifications&nbsp;separate from their resumes. Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical qualifications.&nbsp; You will not be considered for this position if you fail to submit qualification statements specifically addressing each mandatory technical qualification requirement. Demonstrated experience leading a team of architects and engineers in delivering capital projects, architectural design, campus planning, program management, and major renovation or repair initiatives, including setting priorities, assigning work, and providing technical oversight. Demonstrated experience managing an annual budget of $10 million or more, including administering multiple funding sources with varying restrictions, ensuring compliance with obligation deadlines, implementing financial controls, and using budget or financial management systems to plan, track, and report expenditures. &nbsp;Demonstrated experience overseeing contract administration and coordinating project execution activities in support of capital projects and related initiatives. Demonstrated experience in organization-wide real property planning and long-term space management to support the maintenance, modernization, and utilization of infrastructure, buildings, and leased space. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.