Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year experience at or equivalent to the GS-7 providing day-to-day administrative and operational support to a press and communications office in an art museum; establishing and maintaining project management systems; managing payments and budgets; managing data collection and analysis; monitoring and documenting media coverage AND assisting a department head in administrative matters. I have 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's or equivalent graduate degree related to the position. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education that together meet the requirements for the position. I do not have the experience or education described above. 3 Rate your level of experience working with public relations (PR) and media management software platforms such as Muck Rack, Cision and Meltwater. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have education but no experience. I have a combination of education and experience. I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. 4 Rate your level of experience organizing events for the media in the world of art and culture. Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 5 Rate your level of experience tracking engagement of media in a museum's media outreach activities Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 6 Rate your experience managing incoming press requests by email and phone Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 7 Rate your knowledge of best practices in record-keeping, producing transaction reports and budgeting. Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 8 Rate your level of comfort extracting insights from data sets. Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 9 Rate your ability to present data analysis in easy-to-consume ways&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 10 Rate your familiarity with setting up project management systems for teams of more than 4 people&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 11 Rate your ability to manage daily a project management system for a team of more than 4 people Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 12 Rate your comfort working with the Microsoft Office programs&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 13 Rate your experience serving a team of 4 or more people in an administrative capacity Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. 14 Rate your ability to support a department head in personnel paperwork, meeting presentations, scheduling , reporting and other documents Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert advising others in this area. I have a combination of education and experience. I have education but no experience. I do not have experience in this area. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.