Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have a law degree from an accredited college or university? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which selection best describes your years of experience in Domestic Violence cases? Answer to this question is required I have five (5) years or more of experience in Domestic Violence cases. I have four (4) years of experience in Domestic Violence cases. I have three (3) years of experience in Domestic Violence cases. I have two (2) years of experience in Domestic Violence cases. I have one ( 1) year of experience in Domestic Violence cases. 3 Which best describes your experience conducting intakes of parties involved in meditation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes? Answer to this question is required I have five (5) or more years of experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. I have four (4) years of experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. I have three (3) years of experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. I have two (2) years of experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. I have one year of experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. I have received training on conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes but I had not yet performed on the job. I have no education, training or experience conducting intakes of parties involved in mediation, conciliation and other Alternative Dispute Resolution processes. 4 Are you a current member in good standing of the District of Columbia Bar or can you become one within six months of appointment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Can you speak, interpret, read and write Spanish and English fluently? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have experience in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Representing clients at the trial stage in Domestic Violence cases. Representing the government as a prosecutor of Domestic Violence cases. Representing parties at the appellate stage of Domestic Violence cases. Researching, formulating and drafting policy for an organization involved in Domestic Violence. Working as a Court employee, manager, administrator, or law clerk in a Domestic Violence or family court environment. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience with Domestic Violence, Domestic Relations and Child Support law, rules and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which response best describes your highest level of conflict resolution? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicts. I have completed a conflict resolution course but have not yet applied what I learned. I have resolved conflicts that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have resolved conflicts that required agreement on issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have resolved conflicts that required analyzing and solving problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 9 Please identify the areas in which you have education, training, or experience. Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) None of the above 10 Please select the types of case(s) you have facilitated or negotiated. Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Civil Protection Orders Domestic Violence misdemeanors Divorce/legal separation Custody and visitations Child Support None of the above 11 I have working knowledge of the following Rules, Codes and Laws. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Codes of the District of Columbia District of Columbia Court of Appeals Rules Civil Protection Order case flow, codes and documents Domestic Violence misdemeanor case flow, codes and documents Criminal Contempt case flow, codes and documents Paternity and Support case flow, codes and documents None of the Above 12 Select the response that most accurately reflects your experience in managing multiple cases. Answer to this question is required I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on single (and sequential) cases under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) cases under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments for attorneys, paralegal, and/or judicial staff to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) cases under my responsibility. None of the above 13 Select the audiences with which you have experience communicating orally and written correspondence. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Judges and Judicial staff Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups None of the above 14 From the list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely applied. Answer to this question is required Identified all of the pros and cons for a given topic. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds to achieve goals and objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identified common interests. None of the above. 15 Which of the following describes your experience with the District of Columbia's Domestic Violence Law? Answer to this question is required I have taken courses in Domestic Violence Law. I am familiar with District of Columbia Domestic Violence Law but must receive advice and decisions from subject matter experts. I have a working knowledge of Domestic Violence Law, but must consult with subject matter experts for their interpretation before making a decision. I routinely interpret law, and may consult with peers when making a decision. I routinely interpret Domestic Violence Law, and am relied upon to provide guidance to others. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements describes your experience working with highly confidential information? Answer to this question is required I have not had an opportunity to display this ability. It is not a normal part of my responsibilities. I have used this ability as part of my duties in an administrative capacity within a legal environment. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am required to comply with confidentiality standards on a daily basis in a legal environment where I am responsible for maintaining confidential records in compliance with confidentiality requirements. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).