Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this position.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this Budget Analyst GS-0560-11 position.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. 2.1 Describe an experience assisting with budget preparation, justification, or execution. How did you ensure the budget supported program goals and financial policies? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 Give an example of monitoring program funds or obligations. How did you track expenditures and resolve any discrepancies? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 Describe a work experience where you reviewed financial data or prepared reports. How did your experience help you ensure accuracy and that financial transactions were recorded and reported correctly? Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 Describe a project or coursework where you prepared or analyzed a budget. How did you ensure the budget aligned with project goals and financial guidelines? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 Provide an example from your coursework where you tracked or analyzed funds. How did you monitor expenditures or ensure resources were used effectively? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 Describe a class assignment or project where you prepared budget reports and documented financial&nbsp;transactions? &nbsp; How did you ensure accuracy and attention to detail with financial or program requirements? Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 Describe a time you prepared or analyzed a budget through coursework, work experience, or both. How did your education and/or experience help you ensure it aligned with program goals and financial policies? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 Provide an example from a class project, work experience, or both where you monitored or analyzed funds. How did your education and/or experience help you track expenditures and ensure proper use of resources? Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 Describe a project, assignment, or work experience where you reviewed financial data or prepared reports. How did your education and/or experience help you ensure accuracy and that financial transactions were recorded and reported correctly? Maximum length of 500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. Grade: All Grades 1 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 8.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 8.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).