Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Do you have experience performing the duties of an insulating helper without more than normal supervision Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of an insulation helper? Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to journeymen performing insulation work such as gathering needed materials/tools to complete a project and cleaning up areas. I have performed insulations for structures with flat, square, or cylindrical surfaces, straight runs, and regular curves (e.g., pipes, boilers, ducts). I have performed insulations for structures with irregular shaped surfaces (e.g., heaters, valves). I have performed finishing work to ensure exposed materials visually match the environment and are aesthetically pleasing. None of the above 3 Do you have experience performing the work of an Insulator Helper without more than normal supervision, which includes assisting journey-level insulators with the installation, maintenance and repair of insulating materials on piping, duct and equipment systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 08 1 Do you have experience performing the work of an Insulator Worker without more than normal supervision, which includes assisting journeyman-level insulators with the installation, maintenance and repair of insulating materials on piping, duct and equipment systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience performing the duties of an insulating worker without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of an insulation worker? Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to journeymen performing insulation work such as gathering needed materials/tools to complete a project and cleaning up areas. I have performed insulations for structures with flat, square, or cylindrical surfaces, straight runs, and regular curves (e.g., pipes, boilers, ducts). I have performed insulations for structures with irregular shaped surfaces (e.g., turbines, heaters, valves). I have performed finishing work to ensure exposed materials visually match the environment and are aesthetically pleasing. None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience removing and disposing of hazardous materials, such as asbestos and lead? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 With which hazardous material remediation techniques do you have construction field experience? Answer to this question is required Lead paint abatement Asbestos abatement Mold remediation Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) abatement None of the above 3 Which actions have you performed to assist a senior employee or journeyman? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I prepared work sites (e.g. placed tarps over areas/items to be protected) I retrieved materials and tools. I cleaned the work site. I disposed of work site debris (e.g. pipe scrap, dirt, etc.) I disposed of hazardous materials. None of the above 4 Have you interpreted and closely followed oral instructions from supervisors or senior workers to complete a work assignment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have Asbestos Abatement Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience taking precise measurements? Answer to this question is required I have measured flat and square surfaces. I have measured cylindrical and regularly curved surfaces. I have measured objects with irregular dimensions (e.g., valves, flanges). None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, and removing insulation materials? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience installing, maintaining, or removing insulation materials. I have completed training or education related to installing, maintaining, or removing insulation materials but have not yet applied it on the job. I have installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials under close supervision. I have independently installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials. 8 Do you have experience identifying insulation materials with the correct thickness and density specified for a project? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the mathematical calculations you have computed to measure and lay out insulation work. Answer to this question is required Inside diameter (ID) Outside diameter (OD) Circumference Square feet Cubic feet Length or linear run None of the above 10 Select the structures on which you have independently installed insulation materials. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cold pipes Hot pipes Boilers Tanks Ducts Strainers Chillers Air handlers Pumps None of the above 11 Select the equipment you have operated independently when performing insulation work. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required HEPA vacuum Negative air machines (e.g., Micro Trap) Air quality monitor Temperature monitoring equipment None of the above 12 Select the hand tools you have used to install insulation. Answer to this question is required Scissor Divider Roller Notcher Saw (i.e., hand saw, pruning saw) Trowel None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.