Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience coaching and training others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coaching and/or training other staff members. I have formal education coaching and/or training but have not yet performed it on the job. I have coached and/or trained new staff members on how to perform their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others who were having difficulty performing some aspects of their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others to develop them for future assignments or positions. 2 I have performed the following responsibilities, which are related to effective leadership : Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 3 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 4 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above 5 Select the actions you have taken on the job in instructing, consulting with and/or advising others: Answer to this question is required Instructed industry or other entities subject to federal laws or regulations on how to prepare certain documents (e.g., how to write an effective disclosure from a defense company): Educated foreign embassies or other international entities on pertinent programs and policies (e.g., end use monitoring programs). Provided expert guidance on policies, practices, procedures, and/or interpretation of U. S. laws and regulations to affected parties on compliance matters. Provided information and interpretive guidance on intelligence trends indicating suspicious or potential diversion or misuse of U.S. technology. Delivered formal lecture or instruction on export control compliance in a classroom or conference setting. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 7 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 9 With which of the following entities outside of your work organization have you developed successful working relationships? Answer to this question is required Agency employees Agency management officials Other Federal law enforcement agencies Other state and local law enforcement agencies Prosecutors General public None of the above 10 Please select the answer that BEST describes your highest level of experience formulating and/or executing counterterrorism policy:? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in formulating and executing counterterrorism policy. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in formulating and executing counterterrorism policy. I have formulated and executed counterterrorism policy under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I routinely formulate and execute counterterrorism policy independently, consulting with a manager, supervisor OR senior colleague on the more complex matters. The formulation and execution of counterterrorism policy has been a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely, independently, and others consult me for guidance. 11 Select the response that BEST describes your knowledge and skill in strategic planning processes and project management: Answer to this question is required I have no formal training or education in strategic planning and project management. I have formal training and/or education in strategic planning and project management, but have not applied this to work situations. I have formal training and/or education in project management and have applied this in past professional environments. I have formal training and/or education in strategic planning processes and have applied this in past professional environments. I have extensive experience in strategic planning processes and have served as a resource for others within my organization. I have extensive experience in strategic planning processes and project management and have served as a resource for others within my organization. I have participated in strategic communication and planning sessions. 12 What experience do you have using manual or software systems to analyze data in an investigation? Answer to this question is required I have training but have not applied my knowledge. I have employed manual means to chart organizations. I have used link analysis software to detect and display organizational relationships in criminal investigations. I have manually constructed timelines. I have used software to construct timelines. I have used software for data mining. I have searched criminal databases. I have used software to identify outstanding warrants. I have used software to identify terrorists. I have used software for statistical reporting. I have used software to organize and analyze financial information. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.