Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving U.S. export licensing policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Examined and reviewed an export request and its support documentation. Developed recommendations for action on an export request. Prepared an export license request and support documentation. Provided authoritative guidance on U.S. law, regulations, policies and procedures as they relate to export licensing. Consulted intra / inter agency to obtain recommendations on an export request and resolved varying recommendations. Drafted or promulgated revised export licensing regulations, policies and procedures. Prepared and delivered training programs on export licensing. None of the above. 2 Select the tasks you have performed in inspecting, investigating, negotiating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance or enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of reported violations, policy exceptions, debarment decisions or other legal, regulatory or administrative actions. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Conducted onsite inspections, surveys or visits to assess compliance with laws, regulations or executive orders. Conducted investigations to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. Conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose activities have not been in compliance. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Reviewed and identified documents and other open source information sources to identify knowledge or information gaps to determine whether a violation has occurred. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 3 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 4 Select the planning and monitoring tasks you have performed in a compliance or enforcement setting: Answer to this question is required Maintained a `watch list` with regular updates, changes or additional information on individuals or companies suspected or confirmed to have violated the laws and regulations. Monitored specified individuals and companies, continually assessing the status of compliance, evaluated developments affected by compliance activities and recommended appropriate action. Developed case specific questions in preparation for an investigation. Developed and maintained a system for monitoring to ensure compliance with pertinent laws and regulations. Developed and implemented compliance or investigative strategies, plans, and/or procedures. Developed or created new tools or processes to improve a monitoring system. None of the above. 5 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 6 Identify the types of general written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Graduate or doctoral papers and theses. Formal business correspondence. Assist in preparation, editing and/or publication of reports. Administrative actions or directives. Organizational policies, procedures, and/or guidelines. Teaching instructional aids. Journal, newspaper, and/or other articles. Regional Instructions. National Instructions. Form letters. Regulations and statutes. Briefing papers for senior management. Power Point presentations. External publications (e.g., brochures, press releases, cables). None of the above. 7 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.