Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read the following statements A through G which outline the basic eligibility requirements for all engineering positions. Degree: Professional Engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. Degree: Professional Engineering including differential & integral calculus & courses (more advanced than 1st yr. physics & chemistry) in 5 of the following areas: statics, dynamics; strength of materials; fluid mechanics, hydraulics; thermodynamics; electrical fields & circuits; nature & properties of materials (relating particle & aggregate structure to properties) & any other comparable area of engineering science or physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by successfully passing the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences & techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by successfully passing the written test administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, D.C., Guam or Puerto Rico. College level education, training & or technical experience -- Evidenced by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours or courses in the physical, mathematical, & engineering sciences & in engineering that included the courses specified in Option A above. Courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum. College level education, training & or technical experience - Evidenced by successful completion of a curriculum leading a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), AND at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision & guidance. 1 All applicants for Professional Engineer positions must meet one of the Basic Requirements stated above. Please choose the answer that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirements. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice A above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice B above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice C above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice D above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice E above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice F above. I meet the requirements as set forth in Choice G above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. In addition to the Basic Requirements, all candidates must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes preparing and/or reviewing designs for complex mechanical systems in large buildings and campuses. Designs should include both new construction and renovation, encompass many different kinds of HVAC systems serving a diverse array of building occupants and ensure all code, energy, and legal requirements are met. 2 I meet both the specialized experience described above, and the Basic Requirement for an Engineer as indicated above. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-13 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-12 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 4 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-13 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-13 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-13 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).