Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list of quantitative and qualitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Statistical analysis Spreadsheet analysis Simulation modeling Six Sigma Qualitative interviews Focus groups None of the above 2 From the following list of qualitative and quantitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Qualitative interviews Statistical analysis ISO 9000/9001 Malcolm Baldridge Six sigma Focus groups None of the above 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted and applied administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes Program budget Organization Finances None of the above 4 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 5 Please select from the list below the treaties or regulations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required New START Treaty Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF) Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) Nuclear Terrorism Convention (NTC) Nuclear testing moratoria Nuclear Weapons Free Zone (NWFZ) treaties or proposals Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Standard Operating Procedures Analyses of proposed policy and/or products Action memoranda 7 With which of the following program management techniques do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS) Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Project Management Professional (PMP) None of the above 8 Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating orally and in writing with individuals involved in the acquisition process: Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating orally and in writing with contractors regarding a wide range of pre and post award issues. I have experience communicating orally and in writing with contractors and program personnel on serious performance problems, or on issues related to the need for expedited or increased action from the project officer or other program personnel. I have experience communicating orally and in writing briefing the results of my analyses of acquisition issues to management. I have experience presenting various opinions on an acquisition topic to management or to co-workers and recommending a course of action. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.