Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following have you had experience in data analysis? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience collecting data. I have experience assessing data. I have experience transforming analysis into meaningful recommendations. I have no experience with any of the above. 3 Which of the following areas of management analysis have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Policy compliance Procedures Processes Organizational structure Organizational management and reporting relationships Span of control Management practices None of the above 4 In the area of collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data which of the following have you done? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Obtained compiled, and summarized narrative information and quantitative data for multiple sources. Analyzed data to identify anomalies and trends. Analyzed data to assess program or project effectiveness. Prepared audience engagement recommendations based on my analysis of data. I do not have experience collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with conducting a broad range of analytical/research studies related to organizational needs? Answer to this question is required I have consulted with high level personnel both private and public regarding research needs for data systems, operation efficiencies, financial management and/or resource allocation. I have attended meetings with high level personnel in public or private sectors where research studies were a topic of discussion. I have prepared information for supervisors to present to high level personnel in private or public sectors to discuss research needs. I have no experience participating in studies related to analysis and research needs for data systems, operational efficiencies, financial management and resource allocations. 6 Which of the following describe your experience in utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I have made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task; I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have experience utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I performed this task independently as a major part of my work. I have experience utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I completed this task under the supervision of a supervisor or senior staff. I have received some training in this area of work. I have not had any experience or training in this area of work. 7 Which of the following best describe your experience in both leading and participating in work teams/groups? Answer to this question is required I have led large work team or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) of application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. None of the above 8 Which of these activities describes your ability to use a wide range of qualitative and quantitative analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to conduct studies of organization functions, processes, procedures and operations that lead to improved effectiveness of operations and employee morale. Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task. Others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. I have used off the shelf or independently-constructed surveys or studies to gather information on the effectiveness and efficiency of organizations. I have participated on or served as team leader to conduct analyses of data gathered via surveys or other data collection methods. I have developed project timelines to maximize efficient use of human and financial resources available and track completion of work by myself and others for program evaluations and organizational studies I have performed all duties customarily part of organizational studies independently a regular part of my job, keeping my supervisor apprised of projects’ status. Supervisory or higher level review and approval of any aspect of analytical studies is obtained at time frames established at time of assignment. I have knowledge of but no experience applying methods and techniques for assessing and reporting on the effectiveness, quality, and efficiency of organizations’ operations. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience using Microsoft Office tools? Answer to this question is required I am proficient with Microsoft Word and Excel having used it to create spreadsheets and reports. I am comfortable using Microsoft Word and Excel and can work on documents from existing templates or documents. I am familiar with Microsoft Word and Excel and have experience with similar tools for creating spreadsheets and reports. I do not know how to use Microsoft Office tools. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies, implementing policies and developing policies. Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies, implementing policies and developing policies. I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies and implementing policies. I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements describe your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had experience in writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda and in making recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in content of draft reports written by others. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have made recommendations to supervisor or higher management regarding changes in style of draft reports written by others. I have had experience in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have prepared complex financial statements or reports. I have developed operating instructions and/or formal instructions of directives. I have developed technical manuals and/or training manuals. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have prepared correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have written papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have notified individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. I have trained others in written communication. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training proofreading in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents. I have completed formal education or training in developing and editing reports and drafting other written documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed and edited reports and drafted other written documents as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.