Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 GS-07: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have completed 1 full year of graduate level education at an accredited college or university which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS0-5 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B" (3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B+" (3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in my major field of study, or those courses in my major completed in the last two years of my undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I ranked in the upper one-third of my class in the college, university, or major subdivision. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I am a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience working with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have partnered with one other person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers who each have been designated a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a group (or groups) on many occasions with the objective to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, skills, information, support resources, and also sharing responsibility and recognition for the end product or outcomes. In supervisory or leadership capacity, created atmosphere for teamwork cooperation productivity which had positive impact. None of the above 6 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 7 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 8 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 9 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 10 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals to identify issues and analyze alternatives, and resolve differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 11 Which choices represent your experience analyzing information from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I have written technical / policy reports that summarized the findings of my analysis in a larger context. I have compared a variety of information, trends, and/or results to explain a specific issue. I have conducted empirical studies to analyze a multitude of information. I have collected and organized relevant data for others to analyze. None of the above. 12 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence E-mails Research papers Technical reports Standard operating procedures None of the above 13 Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating orally: Answer to this question is required I have interviewed or questioned others to gather needed information. I have orally provided information to others to defend my position. I have explained technical information to non-technical individuals. I have discussed and explained material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have persuaded others based on facts gathered and determinations that I made. None of the above. Grade: 09 1 GS-09: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B or J.D., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least 1 one full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience working with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have partnered with one other person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers who each have been designated a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a group (or groups) on many occasions with the objective to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, skills, information, support resources, and also sharing responsibility and recognition for the end product or outcomes. In supervisory or leadership capacity, created atmosphere for teamwork cooperation productivity which had positive impact. None of the above 6 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 7 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 8 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 9 Please select all responses that describe your experience in locating and compiling information for reports / briefings. Answer to this question is required Gather materials to be routed for information or to be distributed at meetings. Compile factual information from sources within assigned work area. Check indices of central systems for very specific information. Present information in logical fashion. Collect, compile, and retrieve information from various sources within an organization. Compile relevant information and present it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others. None of the above. 10 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 11 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals to identify issues and analyze alternatives, and resolve differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 12 Which choices represent your experience analyzing information from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I have written technical / policy reports that summarized the findings of my analysis in a larger context. I have compared a variety of information, trends, and/or results to explain a specific issue. I have conducted empirical studies to analyze a multitude of information. I have collected and organized relevant data for others to analyze. None of the above. 13 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence E-mails Research papers Technical reports Standard operating procedures None of the above 14 Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating orally: Answer to this question is required I have interviewed or questioned others to gather needed information. I have orally provided information to others to defend my position. I have explained technical information to non-technical individuals. I have discussed and explained material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have persuaded others based on facts gathered and determinations that I made. None of the above. Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the following list check all that apply regarding the extent of your classification experience. Answer to this question is required Analyze and interpret work functions and employee utilization to provide guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs or realignment of function. Perform comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices and/or the agency. Address position classification issues of unusual complexity such as impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions. Provide management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy. Resolve difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues. Develop clear, concise classification evaluation reports. Write responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues. Persuade management, supervisors, employees and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products. Prepare and process formal classification appeals packages. Develop Federal-wide or agency specific position classification standards None of the above. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 6 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 7 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 8 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence E-mails Research papers Technical reports Standard operating procedures None of the above 9 Please select all responses that describe your experience in locating and compiling information for reports / briefings. Answer to this question is required Gather materials to be routed for information or to be distributed at meetings. Compile factual information from sources within assigned work area. Check indices of central systems for very specific information. Present information in logical fashion. Collect, compile, and retrieve information from various sources within an organization. Compile relevant information and present it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others. None of the above. 10 From the answer choices below, select the statement that most accurately describes your ability to organize work: Answer to this question is required Organizes information in tables, charts or graphs. Handles complex and difficult situations in order to relieve the supervisor of administrative details. Evaluates and revises current work procedures or methods to streamline work flow and improve efficiency. None of the above. 11 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 12 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 13 Which choices represent your experience analyzing information from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I have written technical / policy reports that summarized the findings of my analysis in a larger context. I have compared a variety of information, trends, and/or results to explain a specific issue. I have conducted empirical studies to analyze a multitude of information. I have collected and organized relevant data for others to analyze. None of the above. 14 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and resolve problems. Prepared analytical documents, such as decision memos, that identified policy or process issues and offered multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. None of the above. 15 Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating orally: Answer to this question is required I have interviewed or questioned others to gather needed information. I have orally provided information to others to defend my position. I have explained technical information to non-technical individuals. I have discussed and explained material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have persuaded others based on facts gathered and determinations that I made. None of the above. 16 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with internal officials to resolve complex issues in a way that reflects shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with others to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This includes briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 17 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals to identify issues and analyze alternatives, and resolve differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.