Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Do you have 1-year of full-time experience equivalent to the GS-12 leading in the federal service leading interpretive planning for exhibitions and permanent collection installations, and developing interpretive content for multigenerational audiences, including gallery texts, digital experiences, analog interactives, and live programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following statements describes your experience (Check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required I have provided administrative supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinates’ work for accuracy and completeness. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees, and held them accountable. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employee. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees and planned to meet those needs. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from subordinate employees. I have provided technical guidance to fellow employees. I have experience supervising employees who are members of a union. I have served in a formal role of team lead and received favorable performance feedback for it. None of the above statements describes my experience 3 Have you managed three (3) or more employees at the same time? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you had final responsibility for managing at least five subordinates in all three areas of hiring, performance management, and pay setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you managed single projects that drew on multiple funding sources? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you developed a strategy or plan for deployment of a new technology, product or offering? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have been responsible for a taking a project from start to finish, including coordinating project activities, gathering information and requirements, establishing timelines, and maintaining documentation consistent with established policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have been responsible for providing recommendations based on qualitative and quantitative research, informing changes to interpretive content. Answer to this question is required True False 9 Have you worked in a role where museum-based interpretation was a primary function? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have developed a range of interpretive experiences and resources for early childhood-age learners through adult learners. Answer to this question is required True False 11 I have presented scholarly material at a conference or large business meeting, on behalf of my employer or charitable organization. Answer to this question is required True False 12 I have been responsible for explaining art historical styles, movements, and contexts to a general, non-expert audience. Answer to this question is required True False 13 Do you have experience conducting art historical research? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 I have worked with the following kinds of colleagues on interpretive projects (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Curators of art Art historians Scholars in the humanities Educators Conservators Editors Archivists Librarians None of these 15 Which of the following statement applies to your previous work? Answer to this question is required I have independently led cross-departmental teams in interpretive planning sessions for a major museum exhibition I have served as co-lead with a peer or supervisor on interpretive planning sessions for a major museum exhibition. I have assisted on interpretive planning sessions for a major museum exhibition. I have observed interpretive planning sessions for a museum exhibition or installation. I have read about interpretive planning but not experienced it in practice None of the above 16 Complete the sentence accurately: &ldquo;I have prepared [quantity] interpretive plans for museum exhibitions?&rdquo; Answer to this question is required 0 1 – 5 5 – 10 10 – 15 15+ 17 I have created content that was used for the following in-gallery interpretive elements (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Wall label Printed brochure Tactile interactive Visitor response station Audio tour Gallery video Digital interactive kiosk Mobile application None of the above 18 I have collaborated with curators on the writing and editing of interpretive texts about the following (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Works of art Natural history specimens Historical events or artifacts Museum conservation None of the above 19 Indicate your experience working with subject matter experts to develop new content and/or edit existing content. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 20 Choose the statement that best matches your experience with making formal presentations.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have limited experience in making presentations about routine issues within my organization. I have experience in making presentations about routine, operational issues of a practical or procedural nature to officials in my immediate organization, or to peers external to my organization. I have experience in making presentations on routine issues with complex elements to senior officials in my organization. I have extensive experience in making presentations on complex issues and programs that are of a controversial and sensitive nature, to a wide range of junior and senior individuals, inside and outside of the organization. 21 Describe your level of experience communicating with cross-departmental staff and managers within your organization. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in performing this task. I have performed this task under the close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. This task has been a central part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Which data points have you researched for one or more works of art (Check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required Artist Title Date that it was created or exhibited Medium Dimensions Inscriptions Provenance Bibliography Exhibition history Other information not specified here None of these 23 Select the art historical area(s) that you have developed interpretive content or resources related to (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required American Painting and Sculpture British Painting and Sculpture French Painting and Sculpture Italian Painting and Sculpture Latin American Art Native American Art Northern European Painting and Sculpture Spanish Painting and Sculpture Modern and Contemporary Art None of the above View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.