Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Space Management Specialist must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met.From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained oversight of the automated Quarters Management Inventory System (QMIS); and/or I have monitored the review process for requests for space submitted by facilities, leasing space or equivalent and provide recommendation; and/or I have conducted the review, preparation and approval process for temporary land permits, grants of right-of-way and easements, to include the acquisition and maintenance of titles, deeds, metes, bounds, surveys, jurisdictions and maps to ensure completeness for review. I have organized and prepared the process for temporary land permits, leasing space, grants of right-of-way and easements; and/or I have planned work in terms of overall procurement programs to be accomplished including goals, objectives and priorities; and/or I have served as the Subject Matter Expert and consultant for other Property Management Specialists. I have conducted oversight of property records and leasing space for the office; and/or I have resolved property problems in accordance with property policy and guidelines; and/or I have provided assistance to property supervisors in organizing property records and files. None of the above. 5 The Space Management Specialist must possess a thorough knowledge of the design and construction of space layouts and implementation of equipment and technology.&nbsp; He/she will initiate corrective action and compliance for all real estate property. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I participated on a committee with local area managers to resolve errors in data collection and inventory of property and leasing space; and/or I have provided assistance with recordkeeping of properties and leasing space; and/or I have updated existing policy to be reviewed by supervisor and other staff; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on the use of the Sentry Property Management System or equivalent; and/or I have assisted with research and collecting data to resolve property issues. I have maintained property and property records for various divisions within an agency; and/or I have assisted others in resolving property and leasing space problems related to unique or special property provisions for which no guidelines or precedents have been established; and/or I have trained staff in the use of different types of control methods and procedures to various types of property for the agency, as well as trained staff on the use of a Property Management System and Real Property Management System; and/or I have operated and provided employee housing rental rates utilizing a Quarters Management Inventory System (QMIS). I have maintained property records for various divisions of an agency; and/or I have resolved property and leasing space problems related to property provisions by following established guidelines or precedents; and/or I have used control methods for maintaining division property; and/or I have facilitated agency/organization with transit subsidy program or equivalent (which tracks and disburses Transit Subsidies); and/or I have provided guidance to staff on the use of different types of property control methods and use of property systems. None of the above. 6 The Space Management Specialist must be aware of all relevant policies, procedures, and guidelines in order to effectively manage the Central Office Facilities of the Bureau of Prisons as well as develop, analyze, evaluate, and advise on General Services Administration (GSA) real estate property. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a reviewer-in-charge for a Facilities operational review; and/or I have provided guidance to departmental staff regarding policy to ensure compliance with policies and regulations; and/or I have participated as a member of a Facilities program review team comparing current practice against policies and procedures. I have developed local office procedures that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured modification of cost estimates, products and material, and construction time schedules are within parameters; and/or I have explained accessibility guidelines to vendors and contractors to ensure compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). I have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve any issues concerning real property; and/or I have drafted a policy/local institutional supplement on real property and leasing space management; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment of real estate property functions to determine needed changes to policy. None of the above. 7 The Space Management Specialist must establish lines of verbal communication concerning General Services Administration (GSA) real estate property with Central Office, Executive Staff, and other Federal agency staff (i.e., General Services Administration (GSA), Department of Justice (DOJ), etc.,)). He/she must be able to accurately articulate and interpret design and construction space layouts, ensure compliance, resolves issues and problems concerning building maintenance, cost estimates, products and materials, and construction time schedules. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the gathering of non-technical information for use by others; and/or I have made telephone or personal contact with staff to obtain information concerning property; and/or I have participated in discussions regarding property acquisition procedures; and/or I have relayed routine information to the alternate Transit Subsidy Benefits Program Coordinator at a specific location; and/or I have provided non-technical information regarding the utilization, distribution and disposition of property; and/or I have responded to general questions regarding property and the accountability of property; and/or I have assisted with annual Property Officer Training for new Property Officers; and/or I have assisted with the development/revisions of Property Management policies and procedures for the Bureau; and/or i have responded to property management issues from a Regional Office or Central Office review level. I have provided routine technical guidance regarding the acquisition, utilization, distribution and disposition of property; and/or I have explained technical information gathered/verified/obtained through direct contacts with agency/organization peers and co-workers; and/or I have developed/fostered indirect and external communications with other federal agencies to gather and exchange information relative to property utilization and disposal; and/or I have communicated information to Federal agency staff regarding Interagency Agreements, Reimbursement Agreements, Occupancy Agreements, Memorandums of Understanding, and staff quarters (housing) policy. I have communicated and obtained technical information by establishing internal/external agency/organization contacts; and/or I have communicated with Property Officers, Department Heads, and other federal agency staff in order to provide technical information regarding the acquisition, utilization, distribution, and disposition of government owned property; and/or I have developed communication with the General Services Administration (GSA), Defense Reutilization and Marketing Services (DRMS) and Department of Justice (DOJ) concerning the acquisition of excess/surplus property, as well as, personal and real property that comply with regulations and policies to include the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR), Federal Management Regulation (FMR), Justice Property Management (JPMR), and Property Management Manual (PMM). I have developed/fostered indirect and external communications with General Services Administration (GSA) to gather and exchange information relative to property utilization and disposal; and/or I have provided technical information to the Department of Transportation (DOT) regarding the Transit Subsidy Benefits Program while serving as a Transit Subsidy Benefits Coordinator for a particular location; and/or I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit. I have discussed with Department of Transportation (DOT) personnel the Transit Benefits Subsidy Program for a component/agency; and/or I have exclusively communicated with General Services Administration (GSA) regarding the acquisition and disposal of real property; and/or I have facilitated annual Property Officer Training for new Property Officers; and/or I have exchanged complex technical data and information with various management levels within headquarters, regional and field locations. None of the above. 8 The Space Management Specialist is responsible for the Bureau of Prisons data within multiple financial programs to provide real-time access to project and financial information. He/she tracks all of the Bureau of Prisons projects, including funding information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined relevant data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined and resolved minor buying discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending for program areas and initiated appropriate corrective action; and/or I have posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have monitored a budget plan. I have prepared funding requests to the regional office with data analysis/program initiatives that provided justification to support additional resources required; and/or I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns or inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history and investigated and reported inconsistent spending patterns; and/or I have conducted an analysis and recommended redirection of existing resources to provide for unforeseen events based on the analysis of data (i.e., current spending rates and projected requirements related to new initiatives, etc.). I have reviewed and evaluated the agency’s financial state to ensure adequate funds for program coverage; and/or I have developed and overseen bureau-wide budget for all real estate property projects; and/or I have gathered, evaluated, and analyzed regional, institutional, and divisional budget requests to provide recommendations to Senior Management officials; and/or I have analyzed Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Management & Budget and Congressional budget proposals and devised/implemented alternative actions to meet the needs of the agency; and/or I have analyzed complex financial and budget data to interpret the impact on agency requirements; and/or I have reviewed department/organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained. None of the above. 9 The Space Management Specialist must be able to communicate in writing concerning real property with Property Officers, Department Heads, Regional Offices, Central Office Executive Staff and other Federal agency staff (i.e., General Services Administration, Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, Department of Transportation (DOT) etc.). He/she must be able to articulate in writing personal and real property regulations and policies, provide solution to issues and problems concerning property, provide monthly acquisition reports, and prepare Interagency Agreements, Reimbursement Agreements, Occupancy Agreements, and Memorandums of Understanding for the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented standard operating procedures which streamlined current operations; and/or I have developed internal policies and procedures to maintain compliance with changes to national policy; and/or I have developed written communication with the General Services Administration (GSA), Defense Reutilization and Marking Services (DRMS), Department of Justice (DOJ)concerning the acquisition of excess/surplus property, as well as, real property that comply with regulations and policies to include the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR), Federal Management Regulation (FMR), Justice Property Management Manual (JPMR) and Property Management Manual (PMM); and/or I have developed a curriculum to train Property Officers regarding personal and real property policies and procedures. I have provided recommendations for the Property Management Manual (PPM), Technical Reference Manual (TRM), Sentry TRM or Property Office Training Manuals; and/or I have modified existing property policy for internal use; and/or I have written correspondence regarding property matters and Transit Subsidy inquiries; and/or I have written memorandum to staff to advise of new policies/procedures; and/or I have initiated e-mail and memorandum contact with staff to obtain information concerning personal and real property; and/or I have corresponded with others regarding routine property management procedures. I have updated existing internal operating procedures/policies; and/or I have prepared correspondence to supervisor regarding status of special projects; and/or I have prepared, proofread and edited correspondence for supervisory signature; and/or I have revised an existing curriculum for personal and real property training sessions; and/or I have prepared correspondence and established Reimbursement Agreement (RAs), Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) with other Federal agencies; and/or I have prepared real property correspondence and reports. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).