Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have completed one (1) full academic year of graduate level education OR meet eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement Provision (SAA) and completion of a bachelor's degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Applicants applying for this position MUST be currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a half time or full time basis and have an overall grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 or above to be eligible for the DOJ Pathways Internship Program. From the choices below, select the answer choice appropriate. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution AND I am attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I am currently in my last semester prior to receiving my degree AND I have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. NOTE: All applicants MUST submit legible transcripts which document their overall GPA AND documentation as specified in the Required Documents and Qualification Sections of the vacancy announcement verifying current enrollment and attendance on a half time or full time basis. The documentation must be provided at the time of application. I am not currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution OR I am not attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I do not currently have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must be in their second or third year of their theological and/or ministerial training program from an educational institution recognized as accredited by the U.S. Department of Education. Do you meet the selective factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chaplain Intern communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals internal to the agency/organization to include staff, volunteers, contractors and inmates of all faiths, cultures, and ethnic backgrounds.&nbsp;He/she must be able to communicate professionally and must be able to answer inquiries in a clear and consistent manner.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have successfully completed two (2) or more courses in the areas of speech, public speaking, preaching/homiletics, and/or communication skills; and/or I have delivered a formal presentation for an academic society and/or educational institution; and/or I have organized and led congregational devotional during formal supervised ministry training (i.e., Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE), Field Education, Ministry Internships. I have successfully completed a course in the areas of speech, public speaking, preaching/homiletics, or communication skills; and/or I have presented a formal presentation in a classroom setting; and/or I have led congregational prayer service during ministry training. I have enrolled in a course in the areas of speech, public speaking, preaching/homiletics, or communication skills; and/or I have delivered a presentation to a small group; and/or I have participated with others in presenting a congregational prayer service during ministry training. None of the above. 5 The Chaplain Intern assists others in responding to written inquiries. He/she drafts religious events Memorandums and prepares other informational pamphlets for the inmate population, to include activities schedules and religious flyers.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a detailed essay on religious or theological subject matter, with title page, abstract, citations, and references; and/or I have responded to short-answer or essay questions in exams or assignments; and/or I have worked with others in drafting sermon manuscripts. I have created written lesson plans for congregational studies with objectives and discussion questions; and/or I have written weekly reflective journals on ministry experiences, demonstrating critical reflection on strengths, challenges, and learning; and/or I have prepared in final form sermon manuscripts with clear structure and outline (introduction, main points, conclusion) during formal supervised ministry training (i.e., Clinical Pastoral Education, Field Education, Ministry Internships. I have created written lesson plans for classroom studies with notes adapted for the age and spiritual level of participants; and/or I have written weekly announcements for organizational bulletins and/or newsletters, communicating clearly upcoming events and activities; and/or I have drafted sermon manuscripts with clear structure and outline (introduction, main points, conclusion). None of the above. 6 The Chaplain Intern assists others with the planning of inmates&rsquo; religious services, studies, and faith-based reentry programs, and evaluates feedback for effectiveness and future planning.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in organizing an academic group project, facilitating group brainstorming sessions to develop ideas and supporting arguments, assisting with after-action evaluations; and/or I have assisted in organizing a student body event or forum, reserving the venue for event and providing necessary resources, and analyzing event outcomes against the initial objectives to assess overall effectiveness; and/or I have organized a small group session to review and study theological coursework, developing session outlines and discussion questions to guide group discussions, and led feedback discussions to evaluate the effectiveness of the group. I have participated in an academic group project, offering ideas during planning sessions, and engaged in debrief or reflection sessions to discuss the project’s strengths; and/or I have participated in a student body event or forum, assisting with setup, registration, or distribution of materials, and proposing actionable improvements for future forums or events; and/or I have participated in a small group session to review and study theological coursework, supporting peers by actively listening and responding thoughtfully, and providing feedback to session facilitators on potential areas for improvement. I have organized and directed an academic group project, creating project timelines, assigning roles, setting weekly milestones to ensure timely completion, and assessing whether objectives were met, proposing adjustments for future projects; and/or I have planned and led a religious event, reserving the venue for event and providing necessary resources, and analyzing attendance trends and participation levels; and/or I have organized and led a ministerial retreat, developing the theme, objectives, and spiritual focus of event, and evaluating its effectiveness through surveys and written responses to determine if the retreat met its objectives during formal supervised ministry training (i.e., Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE), Field Education, Ministry Internships. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).