Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional/in-patient population and in the context of a specialized unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric diagnoses and treatment interventions including medications, and the coordination of services with other institution/hospital staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others with administering a behavioral modification protocol for a disruptive child or adolescent; and/or I have provided group counseling for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have served as a co-therapist of a treatment group for seriously mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with perpetrators in a domestic violence prevention program. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have conducted skills training for incarcerated adults/patients with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional/behavioral management plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically, mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients in a mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have provided therapy for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. None of the above. 6 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional/behavioral/risk management/treatment plans.&nbsp; These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and make appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral/skills training interventions.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with staff and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have provided sessions within a formal behavioral modification program. I have implemented correctional/behavioral management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in an alternative setting; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral/risk management/treatment plan, such as skills training, anger management, or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients with assistance; and/or I have assisted co-workers and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have served as a treatment provider in a formal behavioral modification program with direction. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: Million Clinical Multiaxial Inventory - IV (MCMI-IV) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory - 3 (MMPI-3) NEO-PI-R Five Factory Inventory (NEO-PI-R) Personality Assessment Inventory - PLUS (PAI-PLUS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R-2) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-V-TR (SCID-5-RV) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 7 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared at least 10 reports based on findings from administration of the MMPI-3, PAI-PLUS/MCMI-IV; and/or I have conducted structured clinical interviews and prepared reports based upon the findings; and/or I have completed a comprehensive test battery and prepared a report based upon the results. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV 2; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 8 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist plays an important role during institution emergencies, resolving conflicts and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed emotionally distraught incarcerated adults/patients using evidenced-based treatment interventions; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving incarcerated adults/patients in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed incarcerated adults/patients who had threatened self- harm; prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have served as a member of a confrontation avoidance or crisis management team; and/or I have observed the de-escalation of a disruptive behavior incident; and/or I have functioned in the role of a mediator or co-mediator to resolve a conflict; and/or I have served as a crisis counselor for a suicide prevention hotline. I have managed suicidal incarcerated adults/patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing incarcerated adults/patients whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 9 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed literature and written a paper on treatment techniques to manage disruptive behaviors; and/or I have prepared a presentation on the treatment of borderline personality disorder; and/or I have completed work assignment on psychopathy. I reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for incarcerated adults/patients engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 10 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long-term and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have overseen the activities of multi-day work related training or other gathering with co-workers; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have completed completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional/in-patient population and in the context of a specialized unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric diagnoses and treatment interventions including medications, and the coordination of services with other institution/hospital staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided long term clinical services to an inpatient treatment program for incarcerated adults/patients with an ongoing disciplinary/behavioral problems; and/or I have served as the director of a treatment unit for incarcerated adults/patients with antisocial presentations; and/or I have directed the development and implementation of correctional/behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in a an alternative setting; and/or I have directed the development and implementation of correctional/behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have routinely provided consultation and treatment services within a sub-population unit/setting. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have conducted skills training for incarcerated adults/patients with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional/behavioral management plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically, mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients in a mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have provided therapy for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. None of the above. 6 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional/behavioral/risk management/treatment plans.&nbsp; These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and make appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral/skills training interventions.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with staff and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have provided sessions within a formal behavioral modification program. I have implemented correctional/behavioral management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in an alternative setting; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral/risk management/treatment plan, such as skills training, anger management, or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. I have routinely developed and implemented correctional/risk management/treatment plans with disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team developing behavioral/risk management/treatment plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have developed and delivered interventions designed to modify an incarcerated adults/patients behavior in a correctional facility/in-patient setting; and/or I have overseen the development and delivery of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans for personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: Million Clinical Multiaxial Inventory - IV (MCMI-IV) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory - 3 (MMPI-3) NEO-PI-R Five Factory Inventory (NEO-PI-R) Personality Assessment Inventory - PLUS (PAI-PLUS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R-2) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-V-TR (SCID-5-RV) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 7 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV 2; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 8 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist plays an important role during institution emergencies, resolving conflicts and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed emotionally distraught incarcerated adults/patients using evidenced-based treatment interventions; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving incarcerated adults/patients in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed incarcerated adults/patients who had threatened self- harm; prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by providing evidenced based treatment interventions as dictated by a treatment plan for incarcerated adults/patients on suicide watch; and/or I have determined whether incarcerated adults/patients condition is severe or chronic enough to warrant a referral to an inpatient treatment center; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with incarcerated adults/patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have trained correctional staff/in-patient staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal incarcerated adults/patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing incarcerated adults/patients whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 9 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. I reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for incarcerated adults/patients engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 10 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long-term and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).