Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 08 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to planting, growing, and tending trees, flowers, and other plant materials? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience related to planting and tending trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I completed training or education related to planting and tending trees, flowers, and other plant materials, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted senior individuals with planting and tending trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I have planted, grown, and tended trees, flowers, and other plant materials under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently planted, grown, and tended trees, flowers, and other plant materials. 2 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to applying pesticides to trees, flowers, and other plant materials in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience related to applying pesticides to plants/soil. I completed training or education related to the application of pesticides to plants/soil, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted senior staff with the application of pesticides to plants/soil. I have applied pesticides to plants/soil under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently applied pesticides to plants/soil. I have provided guidance or training to others on how to apply pesticides to plants/soil. 3 Select the gardening tasks you have performed from the following list. Answer to this question is required Ensured correct plant identification. Maintained plant records. Labeled plants. Prepared signage. Prepared inventories. Provided technical information. None of the above. 4 I have listened to oral instructions and performed tasks exactly as I was told. Answer to this question is required True False 5 Select the responses related to growing plants in a greenhouse environment in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Moving and spacing plants Watering Planting seedlings in pots Planting cuttings in pots Fertilizing Weeding Cleaning greenhouse floors Greenhouse pest control None of the above 6 I have experience propagating, growing and maintaining plants in a public and/or private garden or commercial environment. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Are you skilled in developing shows and exhibits that highlighted the uses of plants? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 What sanitation actions have you taken to prevent the spread of plant diseases and pests? Answer to this question is required Sterilized tools and working areas Sterilized pots and containers Quarantined affected materials (e.g., soil, plants) Ensured sterilization procedures were followed by others Developed sanitation plans and/or procedures None of the above 9 Which techniques have you performed to propagate plants? Answer to this question is required Rooting Layering Grafting Division Seed propagation Striking or cuttings Micro-propagation None of the above 10 Select the objectives you have achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants. Answer to this question is required To encourage growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing) To remove disease To improve structure To remove safety hazards To improve or maintain aesthetics None of the above 11 Which of the following methods have you followed to complete gardening tasks? Answer to this question is required Project plans Long-range propagation plans Planting plans Instructions or Standard Operating Procedures None of the above 12 Have you identified and controlled a wide variety of uncommon weeds, insects, plant pests, diseases, or physiological problems using an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Select the hand tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to prune or trim plants, to prepare soil for planting, etc.). Answer to this question is required Pruners Loppers Shovels Rake Hand saw Spade Pole trimmers Trowel Pitch fork Bulb planter Post-hole planter Machete Backpack/hand sprayer Liquid fertilizer proportioner (e.g., Dosatron) Wheelbarrows or carts None of the above 14 Select the small power tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to trim plant material, etc.). Answer to this question is required Leaf blower/Vac Reciprocating saw Chain saw None of the above 15 Select&nbsp;the large power tools you have used to perform gardening work. Answer to this question is required Electric/ Gas Utility Vehicles Electric/ Gas Powered Blower Hydraulic Sprayer Pallet Jack Fork Lift None of the above 16 Select the instructions you have read and interpreted to complete gardening assignments. Answer to this question is required Equipment operation manuals Pesticide labels Fertilizer mixing instructions Manufacture instructions (for chemicals, etc.) None of the above 17 I have experience locating specific plant information (e.g., plant types, culture diseases and geographical information) in reference books and web sites when I need more information to perform a gardening task. Answer to this question is required True False 18 Do you have a valid, unexpired pesticide license? Answer to this question is required Yes 18.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 19 Which of the following plants have you been responsible for selecting, maintaining and growing? Answer to this question is required Mid-Atlantic Native Plants Orchids Cacti and Succulents Tropical and Subtropical Plants Bromeliads Aroids Carnivorous Plants Rare and Endangered Species Plants of Economic and Therapeutic Importance Ferns Other Living Plant Collections None of the Above 20 Which of the following specialized plant groups/families do you have a broad and thorough knowledge of? Answer to this question is required Mid-Atlantic Native Plants Orchids (Orchidaceae) Aroids (Araceae) Economic and Medicinal Plants Carnivorous Plants Desert Plants Mediterranean Plants Other Specialized Plant Groups/Families None of the Above 21 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized signs that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my superior for problem identification and resolution. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health issues. None of the above. 22 Select the tasks you have performed to install seasonal displays and/or exhibits. Answer to this question is required Clearing weeds and existing plants Tilling the ground Amending soil for proper pH and nutrient deficiencies Preparing plants for optimal growth (e.g., address root-bound issues) Installing plants at proper spacing and depth Creating display labels for plants None of the above 23 Do you have knowledge of growing media and the use of temperature, light level, humidity, watering, fertilization, and air movement to mimic conditions of the plant's natural environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 I have experience planning, installing and maintaining living horticultural displays in a public and/or private garden. Answer to this question is required True False 25 Which documents have you read and interpreted to ensure your gardening work followed guidelines and requirements? Answer to this question is required Landscape designs Blueprints Work orders Safety procedures manual Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above 26 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.