Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the statement(s) that reflect your experience with fire protection and life safety surveys. Answer to this question is required I have created my own support materials for oral presentations, including computer aided presentations, handouts, training booklets, and other materials necessary for successful communication of ideas. I have developed talking points for meetings or presentations. I have written articles for professional journals that have been published. I have developed presentations for conferences. None of the above. 3 Select&nbsp;the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above 4 From the following list, select software applications that you have used to perform your work assignments. Answer to this question is required Computer-Aided Drafting and Design (CADD) systems (i.e. MicroStation or AutoCAD) Technical design/evaluation software Hydraulic Calculation Software (i.e., HASS or equivalent) Other hydraulic calculation software Other software used to prepare, evaluate, document, and produce design decisions None of the above 5 Have you been designated to gather information and interpret policies, codes, and standards on fire protection and life safety issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience assessing the effectiveness of fire protection programs and education? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Which of the&nbsp;following describes your knowledge of fire protection engineering principles and practices to coordinate or manage fire protection programs? Answer to this question is required Assisted in the development and execution of a comprehensive fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program. Served as a project coordinator on fire protection related activities. Maintained liaison with local agency officials to ensure cooperation and coordinated with fire departments to ensure proper response for emergencies. Performed with supervision the well-established aspects of a fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program, such as tracking projects from the conception stage to completion and scheduling appropriate meetings and reviews. Gathered technical resource data to assist in a broad range of activities related to the implementation or coordination of a fire prevention/protection and emergency management program. Investigated a limited number of variables in accordance with approaches that were structured by others. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 3 Have you written a report with findings and recommendations based on code references? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you been responsible for managing a fire protection project or program for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract management (i.e., developing statements of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitoring contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract management. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract management duties on the job. I have performed contract management duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons (IGE), and managing contractor project activities, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing and evaluating contract performance, and managing contractor project activities as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades Program development, management and execution to include knowledge of performance evaluation techniques and key metrics, leadership and organizational skills, problem-solving abilities, and written and oral communication skills to achieve the program&rsquo;s objectives. Fire protection engineering and life safety concepts and principles and wide range of assignments involving combinations of complex features; devise, customize, operate, oversee and/or evaluate applications pertaining to the controls and the delivery of the design and to resolve a wide variety of complex problems. Fire protection system design including performing reviews, construction inspections and acceptance testing in various types of occupancy classifications for new and historic facilities. K nowledge of government contracting laws and regulations to serve as a Contracting Officer Representative, manages contractors, and prepares Statements of Work (SOW) and Requests for Proposals (RFPs). Development of agency wide fire protection policies, standards, regulations, practices, and procedures to eliminate or control potential fire hazards. Ability to communicate orally and in writing including the ability to effectively meet and deal with others. 1 Select the responses that describe your experience interacting with persons of varied backgrounds, cultures, or opinions to accomplish work goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have accomplished goals working with bargaining unit/trades employees. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues or clients who held different views from my own on important subjects or issues. I have accomplished goals working with persons who held a hostile or antagonistic attitude toward me. None of the above. 2 Which statement&nbsp;best describes your highest level of experience in communicating with colleagues in both formal and informal settings? Answer to this question is required Conducted meetings to plan work efforts or to resolve engineering problems. Presented findings at meetings or conducted specialized technical training within and outside the agency. Participated in discussions to plan work efforts or to resolve engineering problems, and/or presented findings at meetings within or outside the agency. Worked as a research team member and interpreted facts for investigations or studies; or conveyed information about a project to colleagues within the agency. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 3 Have you completed fire protection engineering work that required the protection of historical buildings or assets? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developing working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance? Answer to this question is required Independently provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for various fire protection systems in a multi-building complex. Under supervision, provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for large buildings or a small group of buildings. Assisted in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and gathered data and information for the development of working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 5 Which statement best represents your highest level of experience in strategic planning? Answer to this question is required I have presented and justified the goals and objectives of a program to executive management. I have defined the goals and objectives for a program. I have provided input to define the goals and objectives for a program. I completed training or education related to strategic planning, but I do not have on-the-job experience applying these techniques. I have no training, education, or experience related to strategic planning. 6 Select the task(s) that reflects your level of experience. Answer to this question is required Assisted with initial project investigations. Evaluated technical data to ensure accuracy, precision, and reliability. Adapted existing approaches and precedents to develop new methods and procedures for evaluating data. Gathered and evaluated survey data for planning, design, and construction. Conducted technical surveys to determine improvements in facilities. Provided preventive maintenance requirements to maintain safe and adequate building structure, service equipment, and systems. Reviewed contractor submittals for compliance with contract specifications. Documented findings and recommendations for design, construction, and operation of a facility. None of the above. 7 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 7.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.