Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 For which aspects of a program have you implemented quality improvement initiatives? Answer to this question is required Work methods and procedures Manpower utilization Distribution of work assignments Delegations of authority Management controls Information sharing and/or communication Documentation processes or systems None of the above 4 Check the response(s) that reflect your experience in community outreach and public relations: Answer to this question is required Plan and participate in public relations programs and media events. Prepare information for press releases, public service announcements, and publicity activities. Research and write scholarly articles. Plan, develop, and conduct tours. Prepare responses to inquiries from the public, educational institutions, and other agencies. None of the above. 5 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Articulated the important points of the material and draw conclusions. Reviewed various source material and identify inconsistencies. Identified the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. Used quantitative methods. Used qualitative methods. Identified relationships between points, issues, or events. Inferred possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience in developing an organization`s "Talking Points" directed to the media and other external stakeholders audiences? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Select the choice that BEST describes your experience in analyzing management related issues: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 9 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 10 Select the coordination and liaison activities you have performed: Answer to this question is required Communicated and coordinated with my counterparts in other organizations either domestic or foreign. Communicated with senior officials both in and outside of the United States government and their foreign counterparts throughout the world. Communicated with media entities, such as the press, to explain or interpret information. Maintained continuous liaison, communications and coordination with counterparts in other organization, members of a group, association or league in transmitting and receiving communications concerning agreements, regulations or standard operating procedures. None of the above. 11 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 12 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have led staff to achieve tactical and strategic goals I have interacted with and advised senior officials on matters of considerable importance or impact I have interacted with members of Congress or congressional staff regarding policy, programs, or other substantive issues I have conveyed information, on background or for the record, to U.S. or foreign news media I have represented my employer as a spokesperson to domestic or foreign publics None of the above 13 From the following list, select the types of decisions you made: Answer to this question is required Hiring Personnel Termination Reorganization Policy Budget formulation Project scope Program initiation and/or termination None of the above 14 What is the largest number of direct report employees that you have supervised? Answer to this question is required I have no experience supervising others. I have supervised 1 to 5 employees. I have supervised 6 to 10 employees. I have supervised 11 to 15 employees. I have supervised more than 15 employees. 15 Select the choices that describe work activities you have performed in project management: Answer to this question is required Managed a project (or significant portion) from its inception through completion. Conducted requirements analysis (e.g., defined project objectives, scope and deliverables; set goals, standards and methods to monitor progress). Developed action plans and milestones. Administered project (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and/or stakeholders. Implemented project plans including quality assurance processes, project documentation, and post project reviews and/or evaluations. Responded to evaluation and feedback concerning recommended changes and/or improvements. None of the above. 16 Which of the following choices BEST describes the level of your experience leading external outreach programs? Answer to this question is required Work(ed) as member of a team planning and executing outreach strategies for a unit or organization. Developed outreach materials and identified targeted audiences for presentation to stakeholders. Initiated, designed, implemented and/or supervised the development of outreach strategies for a multi-million dollar program at the national and/or international level. Led an external affairs unit or organization. Led an outreach unit or organization. Served as an external affairs officer supervising the preparation of material / information and presenting to stakeholders. Served as an outreach officer supervising the preparation of material / information and presenting to stakeholders. None of the above. 17 Please select the type(s) of employee issue(s) with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Conduct and discipline Adverse actions Appeals Grievances Performance Management Developing performance standards Absence and leave Applicant assessment Security Labor relations Contracts / contract labor Coaching / mentoring None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.