Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 GS-14: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-14: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices best describes your experience developing implementation plans for long-term projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience I have performed work in these areas, but my work was monitored I have performed work in these areas independently I have mentored others in these areas 2 Which of the following responses best reflects your level of experience preparing and reviewing Information Technology (IT) budgets? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education in preparing or reviewing IT budgets. I have assisted with the preparation of an Office or Bureau IT budget. I have independently prepared an entire office or bureau IT budget. I have prepared, reviewed and presented / negotiated a bureau IT budget I have prepared and reviewed an entire Federal Agency IT budget for submission to OMB. 3 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of work experience in the federal information technology acquisition management policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area I have had education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area I have used my organization`s acquisition process I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals) I have led a complex acquisition I have developed acquisition policies and procedures 4 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with the systems development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the systems development process I have knowledge of, or education in, the systems development process but no experience I have performed tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project I have lead a phase of a systems development project I have directed a systems development project through the full life cycle from inception to sustained production 5 Which of the following best describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas 6 What statement below BEST describes your knowledge of available Information Technology (IT) products and services; and commitment to providing quality products and services to your clients? Answer to this question is required I have worked with clients within a single office to identify their needs for specific IT products or services. Information is provided, after validation by a senior level staff member. Business is generally conducted in-person or by telephone, providing guidance to the customer. I have worked with clients from multiple offices to identify their needs for IT products or services, and provided recommendations on available products or services. Business is generally conducted by telephone, providing guidance to the customer. I have worked effectively with different levels of personnel or one-on-one with clients on their needs for IT products and services. I have also been involved in providing or exchanging information and ideas within my peer group on proposed offerings of products and services. I have worked closely with various levels of personnel to identify their needs for IT products or services. I have exchanged information and ideas, resulting in a specific course of action or plans for advanced services. I have used initiative, persuasion and knowledge of subject area to gain support for proposed action. None of the above. 7 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 8 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 9 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics I have knowledge of, or education in information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics but no work experience I have monitored specific metrics and reported on them I have used and interpreted specific metrics and made decisions based on them I have developed performance measures and identified appropriate metrics 10 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I do not have the education, training or experienced in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.