Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. I have a degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. OR B. I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Audit Manager communicates with others to plan and coordinate evaluations, to provide and conduct oral interviews, to develop policy, to resolve problems and present oral briefings of results of evaluations to top agency officials. Contacts include institution staff, department heads and executive level staff, regional and Central Office administrators. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions from the institution or regional staff; and/or I have responded to inmate complaints; and/or I have negotiated local polices/procedures with Union officials; and/or I have assisted in tours of institutions. I have given employees performance reviews; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinates on processing work; and/or I have referred telephone inquiries to the appropriate correctional sources; and/or I have conducted town hall meetings. I have given briefings to upper management; and/or I have guided workgroups in addressing or resolving a topic/issue; and/or I have given presentations and responded to questions; and/or I have given press conferences; and/or I have coordinated correctional facility tours and open houses; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings. None of the above. 4 The Audit Manager writes and/or oversees the preparation of reports, summaries, position papers, and memorandums on evaluations of agency programs and operations. Generally tentative findings are derived independently but are reviewed for conformance with policy, adequacy of support for any suggestions or recommendations made, and effectiveness of presentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written articles published in a corrections publication or professional journal; and/or I have developed national policy or institution supplements that were adopted for use by the agency or institution; and/or I have prepared documents to be used in administrative court hearings; and/or I have served as editor of staff newspaper/bulletin. I have written articles for the institution or Central Office branch newsletter; and/or I have drafted contingency plans/post orders; and/or I have participated in group preparation of reports by writing part of the reports and reviewing and editing other team members’ submissions; and/or I have prepared an after-action report. I have reviewed newsletter articles, routing reports, correspondence, or memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates for clarity, grammar and content. None of the above. 5 The Audit Manager audits the audit process to ensure the audit team followed the appropriate audit guidelines or provided sufficient explanation when team was not able to follow all standards. The primary purpose of the audits is to determine if the agency has effective and efficient internal controls in place to achieve the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; objectives and desired outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed comprehensive audit plans and programs based on the scope of the audit, including risk assessments and resource allocation; and/or I have conducted risk assessments that identified and evaluated risks related to financial reporting, internal controls or compliance with regulations; and/or I have assisted with managing audit teams (i.e., assigned tasks, provided guidance or reviewed work); and/or I have reviewed/evaluated the accuracy and completeness of audit workpapers and documentation prepared by audit staff. I have managed complex projects, specified the scope, objectives and outcomes; and/or I have performed in the capacity of a leader, managing cross-functional audit teams or steered strategic audit initiatives; and/or I have identified and addressed technical challenges related to complex regulatory requirements or sophisticated audit methodologies; and/or I have independently lead audit teams through challenging audits. I have lead audit projects ensuring team compliance with audit standards; and/or I have identified and analyzed audit findings in difficult situations; and/or I have drawn meaningful conclusions from data and provided practical recommendations. None of the above. 6 The Audit Manager is responsible for leading the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; audit teams and to conduct compliance and process audits to ensure the agencies internal controls are effective and efficient. He/she leads the audit team in performing risk assessments of objectives, development of testing plans and documenting the information in the audit plan. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a taskforce charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request. I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office; and/or I have evaluated internal controls by identifying weaknesses and recommended preliminary improvements. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have researched current and historical data to develop alternatives or recommendations to improve current programs. None of the above. 7 The Audit Manager has thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Federal Bureau of Prisons in order to effectively carry out primary responsibilities of directing and evaluating operating programs in institutions, as well as Central Office and regional offices. He/she evaluates the results of audit findings and management responses to recommendations; evaluates quality assurance reviews to identify potential improvements in operations; identifies staff development needs and prepares and presents training to improve staff performance in conformance with professional auditing standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a visual search of inmates’ work or living area of contraband; and/or I have participated in fog or escape patrol; and/or I have participated in a shakedown of inmates; and/or I have participated in investigations of inmate complaints and made recommendations for disposition. I have served on correctional institution committees to formulate institution policy; and/or I have identified violations of the law or regulations made by individuals in a prison facility and took appropriate corrective action; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have chaired program/operational reviews. I have participated in program/operational reviews; and/or I have applied knowledge of entered and retrieved information from a personal computer; and/or I have applied knowledge in data researched; and/or I have reviewed data and various programs and made recommendations; and/or I have participated as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment. None of the above. 8 The Audit Manager reviews administrative procedures for compliance with Federal Bureau of Prisons regulations and policies relating to organization procedures and internal control. He/she manages the activities of staff auditors, ensuring the collection, analysis, interpretation, and documentation of information is sufficient to support audit results through reviewing and approving audit programs, priorities, scope, and methodologies for accomplishment of audit objectives; oversees audit activities to ensure all audit program steps are completed as planned; and monitors performance of audit activities to ensure accuracy of results in conformance with professional auditing standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated project timelines, resources and deliverables; and/or I have developed and managed comprehensive audit plans, that included specific timelines, resource requirements, and deliverables tailored to the scope of an audit; and/or I have assigned and managed resources (i.e., personnel and tools) to maximize efficiency and effectiveness throughout the audit process; and/or I have managed project risks, identified, assessed, and mitigated risks associated with the project; and/or I have developed contingency plans to address potential challenges and ensured project success; and/or I have mentored team members, provided guidance and support to junior team members, shared knowledge, fostering their development to enhance overall performance. I have contributed to the successful completion of audit projects, in a supporting capacity; and/or I have assisted in the review of audit documentation or verified adherence to audit standards; and/or I have worked collaboratively with team members and contributed to a positive team dynamic; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of audit reports or other documentation. I have managed multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring that all audits were completed timely, within scope, and on budget; and/or I have demonstrated adaptive planning pertaining to resource allocation or risk management, in response to changing priorities within the audited entity; and/or I have reviewed and approved audit programs ensuring they aligned with Bureau of Prisons regulations and internal control requirements; and/or I have ensured audit teams adhered to regulations and effectively communicated changes in policies or procedures; and/or I have managed and mentored a team of auditors, emphasizing on the development of staff competencies, setting clear objectives, and provided constructive feedback; and/or I have negotiated resolution of high stake conflicts. None of the above. 9 The Audit Manager must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career-enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee's job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring programs; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product or increased morale. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).