Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I held an 1102 series position in the federal government at or equivalent to the same grade as this position on January 1, 2000, and am excepted from this requirement. SF-50 OR EQUIVALENT REQUIRED. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience utilizing knowledge of government contracting rules and procedures to acquire supplies and services? Answer to this question is required I have negotiated and/or awarded contracts for non-standard items or services such as a professional studies or the exclusive manufacturing of equipment. I have used conventional practices to resolve a variety of contracting problems such as restrictive specification, urgent need, or insufficient price. I have applied specialized technical knowledge of contracting procedures to determine the most economical means of acquiring materials or services. I have not had experience, education, or training utilizing knowledge of government contracting rules and procedures to acquire supplies and services. 4 Which of the following areas have you negotiated and awarded federal contracts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Construction contracts Architect and Engineering services Small Business Administration (SBA) 8(a) contracts Professional services contracts Technical and/or management services contracts Firm Fixed-Price contracts Fixed Price with Incentive Fee Fixed-Price with Economic Price Adjustments Cost Reimbursement contracts Cost Share contracts Cost Plus Fixed Fee Cost Plus Incentive Fee Cost Plus Award Fee Time and Material contracts Indefinite Delivery-Indefinite Quality Multiple Award IDIQ contracts Labor Hour contracts Simplified Acquisitions Commercial Items Commercial Services Government-Wide Agency Contracts (GWACs) Federal Supply Schedules Information Technology Services Contracts based on unsolicited proposals None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in contracting for construction services and restoration and renovation of historic buildings? Answer to this question is required I have developed and issued solicitations and participated in negotiating, awarding, and administering contracts for construction and restoration or renovation of historic buildings, performing the full range of actions under established procedures and with periodic review from senior contracting officials. I have performed major portions of the contract process for construction and restoration or renovation of historic buildings, including solicitation and contract administration, with regular guidance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have assisted with developing solicitations and supporting contract award and administration activities for construction and restoration or renovation of historic buildings under close. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of contracting and procurement activities for asset/property management related contract services including 1) developing contract technical requirements 2) developing cost estimates 3) developing statement of work (SOW) and 4) developing technical performance criteria? Answer to this question is required I have independently prepared and reviewed ALL of the listed items. I have independently prepared THREE to FOUR of the listed items. I have drafted and prepared for management review THREE to FOUR of the above listed documents. I have had education or training in preparing THREE to FOUR of the above listed documents but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not drafted or prepared any of the above documents. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally and in writing with a variety of individuals involving the explanation of procurement procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience providing technical expertise and assistance to program staff in identifying appropriate contract mechanisms, preparing pre-award procurement documents, and monitoring post award contract assistance for the purpose of contract management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing contracting reports and statements that include options and recommendations for management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating with others to obtain ideas, identify potential problems, and make recommendations to management for contractual problem resolutions? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes you experience preparing best value source selection determination of offers received in response to Request for Proposals in making federal awards? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 12 Which of the following contracting actions do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed advanced acquisition planning and strategy in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 7 or equivalent Assemble, write, and issue solicitations Respond to offerors’ questions Evaluate proposals Conduct cost and price analysis Conduct past performance evaluations of offerors Perform source selection Negotiate (discussions or clarifications) Award contracts Resolve protests Debrief unsuccessful offerors Conduct post- award contract orientation for contractor and Contracting Officer Representative (COR) Prepare recommendations on subcontract consent for work Administer contracts in accordance with FAR Part 42 or equivalent Provide Government furnished Property in accordance with FAR Part 45 or equivalent Exercise an option (term or quality) in accordance with FAR Part 17 or equivalent Notate contracts Terminate for convenience or default in accordance with FAR Part 49 or equivalent Resolve claims Closeout contracts Develop procurement policy Handle confidential business information Manage conflict of interest restrictions and determinations Prepare management plans for Advisory and Assistance Services Conduct oral presentations None of the above Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exceptions: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade, unless granted a waiver under Paragraph D. Waiver: When filling a specific vacant position, the senior procurement executive of the selecting agency, at his or her discretion, may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B above if the senior procurement executive certifies that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. With respect to each waiver granted under this Paragraph D, the senior procurement executive must document for the record the basis of the waiver. If an individual is placed in a position in an agency on the basis of a waiver, the agency may later reassign that individual to another position at the same grade within that agency without additional waiver action. I do NOT have any of the above requirements. 3 Choose the one answer below that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for an 1102 series position in the federal government (GS-13 and above). Answer to this question is required I have at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower grade level of the position in federal service, as defined under Specialized Experience in the vacancy announcement. AND I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED. I held an 1102 series position in the federal government at or equivalent to the same grade as this position on January 1, 2000, and am excepted from this requirement. SF-50 OR EQUIVALENT REQUIRED. I am requesting a waiver of part or all of the requirements listed in option A. I understand that this is at the discretion of the Smithsonian Institution’s Senior Procurement Executive and may or may not be approved. None of the above apply. I understand I do not meet the basic requirement for this position and my application will not be considered further. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience utilizing knowledge of government contracting rules and procedures to acquire supplies and services? Answer to this question is required I have independently negotiated and awarded complex contracts for non standard or unique items or services, such as professional studies or exclusive manufacturing of equipment, determining acquisition strategies and resolving complex contracting issues. I have independently resolved a wide range of contracting problems, including restrictive specifications, urgent mission requirements, and insufficient pricing, exercising judgment to determine effective and compliant solutions. I have applied advanced technical knowledge of contracting laws, regulations, and procedures to determine economical methods for acquiring materials or services, with limited need for supervisory guidance. I have not had experience, education, or training utilizing knowledge of government contracting rules and procedures to acquire supplies and services. 5 Which of the following areas have you negotiated and awarded federal contracts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Construction contracts Architect and Engineering services Small Business Administration (SBA) 8(a) contracts Professional services contracts Technical and/or management services contracts Firm Fixed-Price contracts Fixed Price with Incentive Fee Fixed-Price with Economic Price Adjustments Cost Reimbursement contracts Cost Share contracts Cost Plus Fixed Fee Cost Plus Incentive Fee Cost Plus Award Fee Time and Material contracts Indefinite Delivery-Indefinite Quality Multiple Award IDIQ contracts Labor Hour contracts Simplified Acquisitions Commercial Items Commercial Services Government-Wide Agency Contracts (GWACs) Federal Supply Schedules Information Technology Services Contracts based on unsolicited proposals None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in contracting for construction services and restoration and renovation of historic buildings? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in developing and issuing solicitations, negotiating, awarding and administering contracts for construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings. I have supervised performance of this task and am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have independently developed and issued solicitations, negotiated, awarded and administered contracts for construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings. I have developed and issued solicitations, negotiated, awarded and administered contracts for construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings with guidance by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of contracting and procurement activities for asset/property management related contract services including 1) developing contract technical requirements 2) developing cost estimates 3) developing statement of work (SOW) and 4) developing technical performance criteria? Answer to this question is required I have independently prepared and reviewed ALL of the listed items. I have independently prepared THREE to FOUR of the listed items. I have drafted and prepared for management review THREE to FOUR of the above listed documents. I have had education or training in preparing THREE to FOUR of the above listed documents but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not drafted or prepared any of the above documents. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally and in writing with a variety of individuals involving the explanation of procurement procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing technical expertise and assistance to program staff in identifying appropriate contract mechanisms, preparing pre-award procurement documents, and monitoring post award contract assistance for the purpose of contract management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing contracting reports and statements that include options and recommendations for management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating with others to obtain ideas, identify potential problems, and make recommendations to management for contractual problem resolutions? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes you experience preparing best value source selection determination of offers received in response to Request for Proposals in making federal awards? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 13 Which of the following contracting actions do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed advanced acquisition planning and strategy in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 7 or equivalent Assemble, write, and issue solicitations Respond to offerors’ questions Evaluate proposals Conduct cost and price analysis Conduct past performance evaluations of offerors Perform source selection Negotiate (discussions or clarifications) Award contracts Resolve protests Debrief unsuccessful offerors Conduct post- award contract orientation for contractor and Contracting Officer Representative (COR) Prepare recommendations on subcontract consent for work Administer contracts in accordance with FAR Part 42 or equivalent Provide Government furnished Property in accordance with FAR Part 45 or equivalent Exercise an option (term or quality) in accordance with FAR Part 17 or equivalent Notate contracts Terminate for convenience or default in accordance with FAR Part 49 or equivalent Resolve claims Closeout contracts Develop procurement policy Handle confidential business information Manage conflict of interest restrictions and determinations Prepare management plans for Advisory and Assistance Services Conduct oral presentations None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.