Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 In the area of collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data which of the following have you done? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Obtained compiled, and summarized narrative information and quantitative data for multiple sources. Analyzed data to identify anomalies and trends. Analyzed data to assess program or project effectiveness. Prepared audience engagement recommendations based on my analysis of data. I do not have experience collecting, organizing, and analyzing quantitative or qualitative data. 3 Which tasks have you performed to report and present research findings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed custom themes to present research-focused content Used existing themes to present research-focused content Structured content types (Drupal) for data sets, summaries, and full reports Structured custom post types (Word Press) for data sets, summaries, and full reports Integrated charts, graphs and interactive dashboards into a research findings page Set up editorial workflows to review, approve and publish findings Backed up and restored sites to secure sensitive research data None of the above 4 Do you have specialized experience (Federal or other) performing the following duties:gathering, reviewing, and preparing quantitative and qualitative evaluations and writing findings reports; advising on policy matters; and independently performing administrative assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 How have you made recommendations to a director or high-level official based on your analyses and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have independently assessed options and strategies and made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation. In concert with others, I have assessed options and strategies and made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation. I have not assessed options and strategies and have not made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation 6 Which of the following best describes your documented experience with program evaluation and program data? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated successful development and implementation of program evaluation, developed evaluation reports that include program data, and management of program data. I have experience developing evaluation reports that include program data and managing program data. I have experience developing evaluation reports and managing program data. I have experience managing program data. I have no experience in these areas. 7 &nbsp;Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training, evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 8 Which protocols do you have experience with to ensure credibility of data? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required In-depth interviews Focus Groups Observations Triangulation None of the above 9 Which of the following contract management tasks have you performed on the job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted market surveys to determine available vendors and pricing for a service. I have developed and reviewed Statements of Work (SOW). I have developed and reviewed Memoranda of Understandings (MOU). I have served as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) monitoring performance and compliance with the terms and conditions of a contract. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing these responsibilities. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.