Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I have four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed regarding Africa&rsquo;s arts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on Africa’s arts. I have developed an African art collection, identified gaps and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of African art. I have lectured to professional audiences on Africa’s arts. I have lectured to other audiences on Africa’s arts. I have assisted with the planning and development of an African art exhibition or catalog. I have been the curator responsible for developing an African art exhibition. None of the above. 4 Choose from the following list, the type of art collections you have been responsible for curating. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required African ‘ethnographic’ collections Other African Collections Contemporary art (general) Modern art (general) Classical Art (general) None of the above 5 Which of the following represents your experience researching and writing about museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked independently to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked as part of a team to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked under supervision to research and write about one or more collections. I have interviewed object donors and numerous experts inside and outside of an organization to gather information. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 6 Which of the following collections development tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched an existing collection of artworks. I have identified gaps and potential growth opportunities for an art collection. I have made recommendations on potential acquisitions based on the significance of the object or artist. I have made recommendations on potential acquisitions based on object condition or conservation needs. I have acquired new collection items through auctions or galleries. I have acquired new collection items through direct purchase from private sources. I have acquired new collection items through donation. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best represents your experience in developing museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the development of exhibitions. I have developed museum installations. I have worked as part of a team to develop exhibitions. I have developed exhibitions or installations in an arts center or similar setting. I have independently developed multiple museum exhibitions including borrowed objects and related programs and publications. I have curated museum exhibitions which toured to other venues. None of the above 8 Which of the following statements describe your experience with museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked in a museum or arts center with changing exhibitions. I have worked in a museum exhibitions office. I have created or revised exhibition checklists in a museum. I have worked with multiple versions of exhibition checklists while ensuring use of the most recent information. I have tracked or monitored exhibition production schedules. I have produced or constructed exhibition components. I have coordinated production of exhibition components. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following describes your experience in presenting information on Africa&rsquo;s arts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have presented a paper at a professional conference, meeting or workshop. I have given lectures on Africa’s arts to a general audience. I have given lectures on Africa’s art to an academic or scholarly audience. I have conceived and organized lecture series or other public program content for a general adult audience. I have conceived and organized symposia, colloquia, and panels that advanced scholarship in the field. None of the above. 10 Which of the following represents your experience in communicating the results of your African art research? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have produced exhibitions. I have published articles or books for a broad audience. I have produced documentaries, films, or videos. I have given classroom or community lectures. I have delivered presentations or panel discussions at professional conferences. I have produced scholarly papers and publications Media interviews I have produced reports. None of the above 11 Please identify the various research methodologies you&rsquo;ve employed in your work. (Check all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have worked with communities to produce knowledge. I have worked with artists to produce knowledge. I have worked with scholars to produce knowledge. I have not worked with communities, artists, or scholars to produce knowledge. I have not employed research methodologies in my work. 12 Which of the following activities do you have experience conducting research related to African art? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched objects for documentation and cataloging. I have researched and written object labels for exhibitions. I have written for exhibition catalogues. I have researched topics and written exhibition labels. I have published research articles. I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 13 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to translate complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in translating complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences. I have completed training in translating complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have translated complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have translated complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have translated complex concepts and language into publications suitable for general reading audiences, as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Please note the sources and influences within the broad field of Africa&rsquo;s Arts that have shaped your work (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required African epistemologies and ontologies/Indigenous Knowledge Systems Innovation exhibition and programming practices and approaches Indigenous Collection Care Practices Knowledge of Africa’s arts across media and time period None of the influences noted apply to me 15 What types of personnel do you have experience supervising? (indicate all that apply) Answer to this question is required Full-time personnel. Part-time personnel. Interns. Volunteers. Private-sector contractors. Students and research assistants. Fellows. I do not have any experience with personnel supervising. 16 Which of the following activities have you performed to project and monitor expenses in your organization? (check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have estimated costs for individual projects based on historic data. I have participated in the preparation of budget estimates for an office or department. I have compiled estimates and prepared budget requests for a department or large scale, multi-component or multi-year project. I have monitored expenditures for an individual project. I have monitored expenditures for a department or multi-part/multi-line project. I have resolved cost overruns through adjustments within a project or budget transfers between projects. I have supplemented organizational resources through partnerships, in-kind gifts or fundraising. I have developed and implemented internal control policies and procedures. I have received education or training on financial/budget policies, procedures and techniques, but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 17 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the development and training needs of employees. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 18 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed successfully in projects that you led or were assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.