Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- business administration, industrial management, engineering, applied sciences, or other fields related to the position. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the methods, materials, machinery, and facilities used in industrial production operations (which may include exploration, extraction, refining, manufacturing, or processing). This knowledge may have been gained in work such as: Management or supervision of production operations. Industrial planning, industrial engineering, or plant engineering, involving determination of facilities and layout. Process or methods development involving production practices associated with chemical, mechanical, electronic, textile, or food industries. Development of specifications to define product requirements. Sales engineering or buying that required a comprehensive knowledge of production operations. Planning and administering industrial quality control and inspection systems and programs. Comprehensive survey and analysis of industrial operations, organization, capacity, etc. Interpreting and applying contract clauses and government acquisition regulations. Development of plans to determine material requirements and/or schedules for production management. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Production Control Managers must be knowledgeable in all phases of a manufacturing operation including production planning, production flow, inspection procedures, plant layout, equipment used, and specifications required. This knowledge is essential in making industrial recommendations relative to production flow patterns, equipment requirements, floor plans, and efficient production processes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported textile manufacturing problems and discrepancies to supervisor; and/or I have worked as a line supervisor in a factory; and/or I have assisted in the manufacturing of products typical to the manufacturing environment. I have developed a complex industrial process for a custom textile product line based on government and commercial standards; and/or I have coordinated textile factory requirements for a large scale contract which avoided delays in final delivery; and/or I have scheduled a complex textile project from inception to completion and ensured deadlines were met. I have inspected manufactured textile products to ensure compliance with specifications and drawings; and/or I have provided guidance on textile production procedures; and/or I have provided technical information by facilitating a training session to explain new product requirements, equipment, etc. None of the above. 6 Production Control Managers must be able to analyze, interpret, and apply a wide range of information. They are required to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports related to completed projects, which are used as reference material in support of manufacturing processes and procedures, prepare responses to inquiries, and convey information to staff, customers, and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented quality trend analysis which included a conclusion to improve future production processes; and/or I have prepared determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have responded in writing to inquiries from vendors/customers on sensitive issues. I have prepared recurring manufacturing memorandums; and/or I have prepared basic graphs/charts depicting production flow; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence for higher level approval. I have created status of orders for use by immediate supervisor; and/or I have collected information relative to the manufacturing of a specific product line to be used in the establishment of product costs; and/or I have prepared monthly reviews. I have prepared negotiation memorandums to address discrepancies in contracts; and/or I have presented quality cost analysis data indicating more cost efficient methods or justified additional expenditures; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have created a report containing charts and cause/effect diagrams. None of the above. 7 Production Control Managers must interact and effectively communicate with corporate management, program managers, Executive Staff, representatives from other government agencies and private sector entities, peers, subordinates, and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have associated with clients at an industrial conference; and/or I have acted as a technical representative for a manufacturer; and/or I have presented data to upper management which resulted in significant cost saving measures being implemented. I have briefed staff in the office of an outcome of a project; and/or I have participated in staff meetings; and/or I have organized a company activity; and/or I have attended routine meetings, such as the weekly production meeting, etc.; and/or I have discussed routine manufacturing issues with workgroups; and/or I have provided daily safety briefings. I have discussed production related problems with managers; and/or I have presented recommendations for improvements to existing procedures that were subsequently implemented; and/or I have facilitated a meeting with vendors and/or employees on new equipment or possible future use of existing equipment; and/or I have provided answers to others about a particular project. I have negotiated price quotes to uncooperative/skeptical individuals requiring inventiveness, tact, and diplomacy; and/or I have discussed procurement issues with management officials; and/or I have identified, analyzed, and solve an issue involving management, vendors, customers, and contractors. None of the above. 8 Production Control Managers must be able to analyze and interpret information regarding a wide variety of manufacturing, as well as general production related issues. They must be able to logically and rationally formulate recommendations that enhance the manufacturing environment and provide management with indispensable decision making tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided background information and analysis that resulted in enhanced product lines; and/or I have presented recommendations and ideas to improve existing processes; and/or I have monitored and analyzed production information; and/or I have conducted analysis of production and manufacturing data that resulted in management's increased manufacturing goals. I have provided data analysis and recommendations regarding existing products and procedures; and/or I have presented information to local management based on review of information and data provided by various sources; and/or I have presented local staff and supervisors informational reports and data trends; and/or I have prepared manufacturing and production data for inclusion in reports. I have initiated/conducted market research and comparisons which resulted in new projects, product lines, or design enhancements; and/or I have analyzed new or existing data and conducted historical trend analysis for all levels of management; and/or I have provided recommendations or proposals to decision makers that positively impacted the organization and resulted in overall cost savings. None of the above. 9 Production Control Managers must possess an in-depth knowledge of government and commercial industrial standards and specifications to ensure that all products and factory procedures meet appropriate requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied government and commercial standards in modifying a product line to maintain competitiveness with the private sector; and/or I have developed an industrial process for a custom product line; and/or I have implemented a process in compliance with new standards. I have maintained a library of current government standards and specifications; and/or I have reviewed customer specifications to determine if they were in compliance with commercial industry standards and specifications; and/or I have participated in an Operational Review or perpetual audit. I have assisted customers in the interpretation of the FAR; and/or I have interpreted commercial standards to accurately schedule production deadlines; and/or I have provided guidance on government and commercial industrial standards and specifications to factory personnel during a production discrepancy. None of the above. 10 Production Control Managers must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. They must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure production requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned production process of a new product line from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the purchasing of resources (e.g., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.) required to implement a complex product line; and/or I have modified production line to meet an emergency requirement (e.g., halted normal production to produce emergency product and met shipping requirements). I have planned production processes to meet normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for purchase; and/or I have met requirements of a single product line; and/or I have acted in the capacity of Factory Manager. I have modified production processes of an existing product line to meet customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for a segment of a product line; and/or I have successfully met shipping requirements of multiple product lines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).