Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 4 Select the areas of human capital management that you have experience in: Answer to this question is required Human Capital Strategy Human Capital Policy and Compliance (e.g., PMA, GPRA) Recruitment and Retention Employee Relations Staffing and Classification Compensation None of the Above 5 I have provided human resources advisory service in the following specialty areas. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resources Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Senior Executive Service Political Appointees Executive Development None of the Above 6 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptroller General Decisions Senior Executive Service (SES) Guide Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) None of the above 7 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above 8 Which of the following have you performed in a human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Researching, compiling, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data. Developing recommendations / options based upon analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Presenting findings and recommendations in writing and orally, based on analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Analyzing and evaluating on a quantitative and qualitative basis the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Researching new or improved business and management practices for application to programs or operations. Developing new or modified administrative program goals, objectives and/or procedures. Identifying and analyzing data required for use in the management of programs. Performing analytical studies that involve highly significant programs and policy matters. None of the Above 9 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 10 I have used my knowledge of position management principles and developed recommendations and strategies to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of program operations by assessing: Answer to this question is required Organizational structures Skills / competency mix Reporting relationships Management of human capital needs None of the above. 11 Select the area(s) that describe(s) your expertise in executive resource program management, including SES staffing, awards, and performance management. Answer to this question is required SES Staffing SES compensation Political appointments SES performance management Performance Review Boards SES bonuses Presidential Rank Awards SES position management None of the above 12 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 14 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 4 Select the areas of human capital management that you have experience in: Answer to this question is required Human Capital Strategy Human Capital Policy and Compliance (e.g., PMA, GPRA) Recruitment and Retention Employee Relations Staffing and Classification Compensation None of the Above 5 I have provided human resources advisory service in the following specialty areas. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resources Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Senior Executive Service Political Appointees Executive Development None of the Above 6 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptroller General Decisions Senior Executive Service (SES) Guide Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) None of the above 7 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above 8 Which of the following have you performed in a human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Researching, compiling, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data. Developing recommendations / options based upon analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Presenting findings and recommendations in writing and orally, based on analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Analyzing and evaluating on a quantitative and qualitative basis the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Researching new or improved business and management practices for application to programs or operations. Developing new or modified administrative program goals, objectives and/or procedures. Identifying and analyzing data required for use in the management of programs. Performing analytical studies that involve highly significant programs and policy matters. None of the Above 9 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 10 I have used my knowledge of position management principles and developed recommendations and strategies to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of program operations by assessing: Answer to this question is required Organizational structures Skills / competency mix Reporting relationships Management of human capital needs None of the above. 11 Select the area(s) that describe(s) your expertise in executive resource program management, including SES staffing, awards, and performance management. Answer to this question is required SES Staffing SES compensation Political appointments SES performance management Performance Review Boards SES bonuses Presidential Rank Awards SES position management None of the above 12 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 14 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.