Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to communicate in English and French.** Communicate professional and technical information in English and French. Communication responsibilities include reading, writing, and speaking at a level sufficient to identify bibliographic elements and/or acquire material in all formats. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience communicating in English and French in a professional environment. Communication responsibilities include reading, writing, and speaking in performing acquisition, cataloging, research, or related activities. Has some experience communicating in English and French in a professional environment. Communication responsibilities include reading, writing, and speaking in performing acquisition, cataloging, research, or related activities. Has some experience and/or college level competency communicating in English and French. Communication activities include reading, writing, and speaking. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of library metadata rules, practices, and procedures.** Applied knowledge of established and emerging national and international metadata standards, formats, applications, and best practices for: (1 the creation, enrichment, and maintenance of original/copy cataloging records and metadata in various formats and for various media (e.g., MARC, RDA, FRBR, LCSH, LC Classification, BIBFRAME, CONSER, Dublin Core, EAD, DCRM, ); (2 authority control (e.g., NACO, SACO, VIAF); and (3 controlled vocabularies and metadata schema. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in applying national and international standards to perform COMPLEX original and copy cataloging (e.g., across a variety of formats and media) and for the creation, enrichment, and maintenance of metadata in a library or equivalent professional setting. Demonstrated experience with SOME of the above, including applying international metadata standards to perform original OR copy cataloging in the creation, enrichment, and maintenance of metadata in a library or equivalent professional setting. Demonstrated practical knowledge of metadata creation and management by completing coursework or equivalent experience. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to acquire and process library materials.** Demonstrates the ability to perform acquisition activities in an automated environment using established standards and practices, including: 1) acquiring a variety of library materials; 2) determining appropriate acquisition methods for purchase, exchange, or gift, etc.; 3) reviewing and processing invoices for payment; 4) communicating with vendors or materials suppliers; 5) placing orders; and 6) resolving problems throughout stages in the acquisitions process. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above in a library or academic environment. Performed at least FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) in a library or academic environment. Performed at least TWO (2) or THREE (3) in a library or academic environment. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to use library software applications, integrated library platforms, and other information technology.** Uses library technology and encoding/structural standards to perform work related to library acquisitions and/or metadata creation including: 1) bibliographic utilities and knowledge bases (e.g., OCLC); 2) linked data principles (e.g., RDF); 3) emerging library applications (e.g., BIBFRAME); 4) metadata creation and management tools (e.g., MarcEdit; Macro Express); 5) online tools (e.g., Class Web, Cataloger&rsquo;s Desktop, RDA Toolkit, LC Authority Files); 6) reference resources (e.g., OPACS, organizational websites); 7) integrated library platforms and modules (e.g., Voyager Acquisitions Module, ERM, BIBFRAME Database, discovery platforms); and 8) spreadsheets and data management software (e.g., Excel). Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience using ALL of the above library tools and technologies to perform major library functions and programs, such as acquisitions and metadata creation. Demonstrated experience using FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above library tools and technologies to perform major library functions and programs, such as acquisitions and metadata creation. Demonstrated experience using THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above library tools and technologies, to perform major library functions and programs, such as acquisitions and metadata creation. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced various written documents, including: 1) reports; 2) descriptive memoranda; 3) compilations and syntheses of information and data; 4) professional email correspondence; 5) reference responses; 6) presentations; and 7) procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision wrote ALL of the above documents. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and constructed the information to match the technical level of the audience. Independently, with minimal supervision or collaboratively, wrote FIVE (5) to SIX (6) of the above documents. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and constructed the information to match the technical level of the audience. Wrote AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above documents for review by a supervisor or higher graded specialist. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and tailored the information to match the technical level of the audience. None of the Above, 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of history, politics, literature, and culture of West African and South African countries where French and Portugese are spoken. Used knowledge of the language and cultures of West Africa and South African countries where french or Portuguese is spoken to assist researchers in the culture, history, literature, politics, economy, social sciences, and political structures and international relations of these countries and regions. Answer to this question is required Has extensive knowledge of the language, culture, history, literature, economy, social sciences, international relations and politics of West African and South African countries where French or Portuguese is spoken through professional duties and publications or information products. Has knowledge of the language, culture, literature, history, economy, social sciences, international relations and politics of West African and South African countries where French or Portuguese is spoken through training, graduate course work, and/or work experience. Has knowledge of the language, culture, literature, history, economy, social sciences, international relations and politics of West African and South African countries where French or Portuguese is spoken through education or work experience None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to develop and maintain relationships and provide consultation and liaison services. Provided consultation or performed liaison duties to help solve technical problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds working inside and outside an organization. Also worked with national and/or international partners. Provided specialized and/or technical information in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds working primarily within an organization. Provided specialized technical information in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds, communicating specialized or technical information in a professional and/or an academic setting. None of the Above. 16 In the box below, please describe how your education, experience and/or training demonstrate your knowledge of librarianship and information science, the use of emerging technologies, and your participation in teamwork. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).