Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 Have you been responsible for responding verbally to customers' inquiries for information, direction, and/or guidance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Are you able to ascend/descend stairs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Can you lift bags or packages that may weigh up to 20 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you able to stand for extended periods of time, up to 2.5 hours without a break, both inside and outside? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you verbally explained policies and procedures to public/guests/visitors at an information center or place of business? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 In which of the following types of work environments have you worked? Answer to this question is required Arboretum, botanic garden or other horticultural site Art gallery Construction Site Historic house or site Hospital Hotel Library or Archive Movie Theater Office Park or Outdoor Recreation area Performing Arts Venue or similar public space Retail Restaurants Sales School Warehouse None of the above Other 8 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience maintaining focus and situational awareness during high visitation periods, in order to prevent misuse, harm or loss to employees, property, or other members of the visiting public.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience providing accurate and pertinent information, direction and/or guidance to the general public/guests/visitors about services or activities of interest.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 I have the ability to serve as a front-line representative of an organization to greet customers and answer questions. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience interacting with others who display disruptive behaviors and resolving complaints and conflicts pleasantly and professionally.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.