Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of principles and practices for managing digital library collections.** Applied knowledge of digital content management principles and practices to implement processes and services for the management of digital library collections. Experience demonstrates knowledge of digital collections including: 1) acquisition and processing of digital files, 2) multiple digital formats, 3) metadata, and 4) inspection and quality control of digital assets in a library environment. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience having utilized knowledge of ALL digital content management principles and practices: 1) acquisition and processing of digital files, 2) multiple digital formats, 3) metadata, and 4) inspection and quality control of digital assets in a library environment. Demonstrated some experience having utilized limited knowledge of digital content management principles and practices. In addition, performed at least THREE (3) of the above. Demonstrated some experience having utilized limited knowledge of digital content management principles and practices. In addition, performed at least TWO (2) of the above None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of library processes and procedures.** Used knowledge of library processes and procedures to acquire, describe, organize, preserve, or access library materials. Answer to this question is required Has a broad knowledge of library functions, processes and procedures in a large or specialized library, including collection material processing and record organization and arrangement. Has a broad knowledge of library processes and procedures, including collection material processing and record organization and arrangement. Has knowledge of library processes and procedures. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to utilize computer technology/software applications.** Utilized technology to perform work for an organization to input, retrieve, format, or organize information, including software and databases for the following: 1) Word-Processing, (e.g., Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) web/internet searching, and 4) automation tools. Identified the need for and applied computer technology to improve work processes. Answer to this question is required Routinely utilized ALL of the above technology to perform work in a library and identified the need for and applied technology to improve work processes related to managing digital library collections. Routinely utilized ALL of the above technology to perform work and applied technology to improve work processes. Routinely used at least two (2) of the above to perform work. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan work and meet deadlines. Planned and carried out accession, arrangement, description, preservation or disposal of digital materials according to directions and/or standard practices. Answer to this question is required Independently planned workflow selected and interpreted appropriate procedures and met quality and timeliness objectives to carry out accession, arrangement, description, and/or disposal functions for a collection. With minimum supervision, planned workflow, interpreted appropriate procedures, met quality, and timeliness objectives to carry out accession, arrangement, description, and/or disposal functions for a collection. With minimum supervision, selected and interpreted appropriate procedures and met quality and timeliness objectives to carry out accession, arrangement, description, and/or disposal functions for a collection. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to accurately identify and edit records. Identified and edited accurate records to perform arrangement and description work in a major body of records that described digitized and born-digital materials, including: 1) checking for duplications, verified versions, and authenticated content; 2) identifying issues concerning integrity and authenticity of content, 3) correcting, adding to, and editing existing records, and 4) creating new records by copying existing ones or employing templates when needed. Answer to this question is required Followed library (or similar) processes and procedures to perform arrangement and description work in a major body of records that describe digitized or born-digital materials, and performed ALL of the above. Followed library (or similar) processes and procedures to perform arrangement and description work in a major body of records that describe digitized or born-digital materials, and performed at least three (3) of the above. Followed library (or similar) processes and procedures to perform record arrangement and/or description work on existing records and digitized or born-digital collection materials. Performed at least two (2) of the above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products related to the responsibilities of the position. These documents included: (1) meeting notes, (2) procedural documents, instructions, and guidelines, (3) presentations on digital topics, and (4) correspondence. In doing so, applied professional techniques, including the use of style and citation guides, application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage and tailored the information to match the technical level of the audience. Answer to this question is required Independently drafted, reviewed, and edited formal and informal correspondence such as letters, memos and reports, meeting notes, procedural documents, instructions, and guidelines for presentations on digital topics. Ensured all documentation met standards for clarity, consistency and format. Drafted for supervisor's review formal and informal correspondence such as letters, memos and reports, meeting notes, procedural documents, instructions, and guidelines for presentations on digital topics. Ensured all documentation met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. Drafted informal correspondence such as emails, memos, and reports. Ensured correspondence was properly formatted and addressed correctly. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).