Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level performing and overseeing advanced scholarly research on Northern European Renaissance and Baroque paintings?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you possess the ability to read and speak Dutch?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 The Baroque period spanned 1600 to 1750.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 5 Northern Renaissance occurred from 1400 to 1600.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 6 Old Master paintings are works created between 1300 and 1800.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 7 Have you published on 17th-century Dutch paintings in a scholarly catalogue or periodical? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you been the principal author for a printed scholarly publication on Northern European paintings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you contributed research and writing on Northern European paintings for a digital scholarly publication? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you directed a Northern European paintings research project involving other scholars and research associates for a museum? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you authenticated a Northern European Old Master painting? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.