Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of printing equipment, processes, and technologies.** Applied a broad range of printing services by: 1) determining the printing specifications and procurement details for printing requests; 2) carrying out production checks of manuscripts, camera-ready art, and/or electronic files; 3) inspecting printed material for quality assurance; 4) establishing production schedules; and 5) reviewing printing process suggesting alternative methods of production. Answer to this question is required As a printing services specialist or equivalent performed ALL of the above As a printing services specialist or equivalent performed FOUR of the above. As a printing services specialist or equivalent performed THREE of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize technology related to printing and publication design .** Performed printing and publication duties utilizing printing related software, including software for: 1) Desktop Publishing/Layout and graphic design software, 2) word-processing, 3) relational databases, 4) email and electronic calendar, 5) spreadsheets, and 6) presentation software. Answer to this question is required As a printing services specialist or equivalent, independently demonstrated EXPERTISE performing print and publication duties utilizing ALL OF THE ABOVE. As a printing services specialist or equivalent, independently demonstrated EXPERTISE performing print and publication duties utilizing FIVE OF THE ABOVE. As a printing services specialist or equivalent, independently demonstrated EXPERTISE performing print and publication duties utilizing THREE or FOUR OF THE ABOVE. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to meet and deal with others .** Developed and maintained relationships to gain and share information, and influence others as well as provide positive and professional printing services to customers by anticipating their current and future needs. This includes the following activities: 1) providing guidance and advice to customers on printing projects; explaining projected costs, cost effectiveness, regulations and policies, print format, ink paper, binding styles, and production specifications; 2) assisting customers in determining cost effective and timely sources for services; 3) working with various printing facilities in the public and/or private sector to negotiate schedules, resolve production problems and follow-up on work progress; and 4) providing timely feedback on customers&rsquo; needs. Answer to this question is required As the primary contact for assessing a customers’ printing services’ needs, helped customers in the planning stages of printing projects and performed ALL of the activities listed above. As the primary contact for assessing a customers’ printing services’ needs, helped customers in the planning stages of printing projects and performed THREE of the activities listed above. As the primary contact for assessing a customers’ printing services’ needs, helped customers in the planning stages of printing projects and performed TWO of the activities listed above. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, organize and execute work . Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required INDEPENDENTLY planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing FIVE or SIX of the above tasks. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing FOUR of the above tasks. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to focus on the customer . Created an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation is evident to customers by anticipating and recognizing current and future customer needs, putting the customer first, and maintaining a professional image. This included meeting commitments to customers on time and keeping them informed; seeking and using customer feedback; and handling complaints effectively. Answer to this question is required Provided customer service to demanding clientele requiring complex printing services. Anticipated customer/client needs; solved complaints and concerns using diplomacy, tact, and professionalism; and negotiated adjustments in customer or client expectations when necessary. Took proactive approach to enhance customer service. Provided customer service to demanding clientele requiring printing services. Anticipated customer/client needs; solved complaints and concerns using diplomacy, tact, and professionalism; and negotiated adjustments in customer or client expectations when necessary. Provided customer service to demanding clientele requiring printing services. Resolved complaints and concerns using diplomacy, tact, and professionalism; and negotiated adjustments in customer or client expectations as instructed by supervisor. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).