Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to apply administrative processes and techniques.** Provided administrative support in conducting activities such as: 1) served as a backup timekeeper, 2) prepared vacancy announcements, 3) maintained employee personnel files and update work performance management documents, 4) supported coordination of office moves, space allocation, furniture and equipment, 5) initiated and tracked personnel actions, 6) supported property and inventory management tasks, 7) supported purchase of supplies, and 8) coordinated and scheduled meetings. Answer to this question is required In an office setting, provided administrative support in ALL of the Activities above. In an office setting, provided administrative support in SIX of the activities above. In an office setting, provided administrative support in FIVE of the activities above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to perform budget, financial and procurement administrative support activities.** Performed budget financial and procurement administration support activities, including: 1) reviewed budget calls and monitored report schedules and data requirements, 2) monitored and reported on the status of control systems for accounts during the fiscal year, 3) assembled reports related to budgetary, financial, and contracting operations, 4) provided back-up support to the cardholder of the Contracts and Grants Directorate credit card for purchases, and 5) reviewed invoices and related documents for payment, verifying that services have been performed. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility performed ALL of the administrative activities above. As a primary job responsibility performed FOUR of the administrative activities above As a primary job responsibility, assisted with TWO of the administrative activities above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short-term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing tasks 1) through 6) listed above. Under general supervision, completed work assignments planned by supervisors, including performing tasks 1) through 4) listed above, met critical deadlines, and accomplished work. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to utilize computer technology. Supported administrative work of an organization by utilizing a variety of software applications to accomplish work assignments including the following:1) e-mail and electronic calendar; 2) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint); 3) word processing (e.g., MS Word, CCM); 4) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 5) financial management systems (e.g., Momentum); 6) personnel/payroll data systems (e.g., GovTA, NFC, EmpowHR, eManagement); and 7) office equipment (e.g., digital photocopy machine, scanner and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Routinely utilized ALL of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized FIVE (5) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized THREE (3) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).