Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of contract admin principles and practices to monitor contractor performance; ensure compliance w/contract terms; resolve issues; and perform contract closeouts.** Provided quality assurance and monitoring of contracts related to multiple IT (Information Technology) projects with integrated schedules and deliverables. Answer to this question is required Developed and managed quality control and assurance processes and procedures for oversight throughout the contract life cycle. Monitored vendors’ reporting of performance management metrics throughout contracts’ period of performance, ensuring that all performance management reporting contract terms are fulfilled by the vendors. Submitted contractor performance evaluation pursuant to agency regulations. Developed quality control and assurance processes and procedures for oversight throughout the contract life cycle. Monitored vendors’ reporting of performance management metrics throughout contracts’ period of performance, ensuring that all performance management reporting contract terms are fulfilled by the vendors. Supported oversight throughout the contract life cycle. Monitored vendors’ reporting of performance management metrics throughout contracts’ period of performance. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of various procurement methods and contract types.** Developed complex IT requirements and utilized various contracts types and procurement methods to satisfy the needs of a project or business unit in the most economical and effective manner. Answer to this question is required Individually performed contract administration activities for procurements related to the significant acquisition of IT goods and services where selection involved the trade-off among non-price factors. Monitoring included primarily fixed price contracts but may have included other contract types, such as, cost-plus-fix-fee, labor hours, cost-plus-award-fee, with moderate to high dollar values. Closed out contracts and disposed of COR (Contracting Officer's Representative) files pursuant to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Agency guidance. Individually performed contract administration activities for procurements related to the acquisition of IT goods and services where selection is based on low-cost technically acceptable offers. Monitoring included primarily non-complex fixed price contracts for relatively low dollar values. Closed out contracts and disposed of COR (Contracting Officer's Representative) files pursuant to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Agency guidance. Assisted with contract administration activities for procurements related to the acquisition of IT goods and services where selection is based on technical acceptability of offered products. Monitoring included primarily non-complex fixed price contracts for relatively low dollar values. Assisted with closing out contracts and disposes of COR (Contracting Officer's Representative) files pursuant to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Agency guidance. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to interact collaboratively with others, including providing acquisition advice and direction to technical representatives. Collaborated with internal and external stakeholders, business analysts, IT (Information Technology) specialists, contractors, and others to identify and capture business requirements and expectations at the Agency-wide and Service Unit/Directorate/Division levels. Answer to this question is required Articulated clear requirements in Statements of Work or Performance Work Statements for complex goods and services requiring periodic oversight and interaction with contractor program management and agency service units to address issues with contract staffing, schedule, and project management. Articulated clear requirements in Statements of Work or Performance Work Statements for goods and services requiring periodic oversight and interaction with contractor program management and agency service units to address issues with contract staffing, schedule, and project management. Articulated requirements in Statements of Work or Performance Work Statements for Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) goods and services requiring periodic oversight and interaction with contractor program management and agency service units to address issues with contract staffing, schedule, and project management. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of the contracting principles, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and/or post award procurement actions. Developed and executed IT (Information Technology) acquisition plans that describes the business, technical, and support strategies, as well as, realistic approaches to satisfying the needs of a project or business unit. Answer to this question is required Led team in evaluating technical and other non-price factors in proposals and past performance. Provided input to Program Manager or Contracting Officer on acquisition and source selection plans. Reviewed and recommended appropriate solicitation and contract structure to include CLINs (Contract Line Item Number), deliverables, ordering, options, payment, insurance, intellectual property, and associated standard commercial terms and conditions. Ensured that contracting terms specify required performance management metrics, reporting, and processes to support OCIO’s vendor performance management process. Evaluated technical and other non-price factors in submitted proposals. Submitted requisitions with accurate product descriptions, quantities, and delivery schedules. Provided support to ensure that contracting terms specify required performance management metrics, reporting, and processes to support OCIO’s vendor performance management process. Evaluated non-price factors in submitted proposals. Assisted in reviewing that contracting terms specify required performance management metrics, reporting, and processes to support OCIO’s vendor performance management process. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to perform research and analyze information on a variety of information technology products and services. Utilizing knowledge of the principles, methods, and processes to conduct a systematic and objective inquiry; including market research, analysis, and interpretation of data; and the reporting of results. Answer to this question is required Independently conducted and documented market research with minimal oversight and guidance for complex IT (Information Technology) products and services using historical information, web-based research and contacts with industry. Estimated contract pricing using historical contracts data, other agencies’ data, and responses to request for information. Understood, interpreted, and explained the effect of standard and tailored contract terms. Independently conducted and documented market research with some oversight and guidance for simple IT (Information Technology) products and services using historical information, web-based research and contacts with industry. Estimated contract pricing using historical contracts data, other agencies’ data, and responses to request for information. Understood, interpreted, and explained the effect of standard and tailored contract terms. Independently conducted and documented market research with some oversight and guidance for IT (Information Technology) products using historical information, web-based research and contacts with industry. Estimated contract pricing using historical contracts data, other agencies’ data, and responses to request for information. Understood, interpreted, and explained the effect of standard and tailored contract terms. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).