Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate all of the following: (1) Performing architectural design, technical reviews, quality control and project management on building projects and interior tenant fit-outs from planning and programming through construction ; (2) Assessing compliance with construction standards, preparing full construction drawings and specifications, and preparing scope of work documents and statements of work; (3) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects; (4) Serving as Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for building construction projects; and (5) Evaluating&nbsp;and monitoring quality levels of furnishings including but not limited to modular furniture and maintaining contact with suppliers, installation contractors and procurement personnel during all phases of projects. 3 In which stages of design have you participated in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents None of the above 4 Have you independently performed constructability analysis of designs for building renovation projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the reasons you suggested changes to designs developed by others. Answer to this question is required To comply with codes To comply with agency-specific design standards or regulations To improve constructability To improve facility maintenance To improve facility operations To meet programming or client objectives To correct a design error I have not reviewed designs developed by others Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate all of the following: (1) Performing architectural design, technical reviews, quality control and project management on building projects and interior tenant fit-outs from planning and programming through construction ; (2) Assessing compliance with construction standards, preparing full construction drawings and specifications, and preparing scope of work documents and statements of work; (3) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects; (4) Serving as Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for building construction projects; (5)&nbsp; Evaluating and monitoring quality levels of furnishings including but not limited to modular furniture and maintaining contact with suppliers, installation contractors and procurement personnel during all phases of projects; (6) P erforming requirements analysis, developing and implementing plans to ensure that the project scope is met and requirements are defined and documented, projects are formally approved, and milestones and reviews are accomplished; (7) Conduct independent studies and/or assessments to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of form and function and recommend improvements to management; and (8) Reviewing and evaluate shop drawings, progress schedules, and inspecting conformance to technical documents during construction. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select which of the following licenses, certifications or registrations you possess: Answer to this question is required Licensed Professional Engineer (PE) Registered Architect (RA) Project Management Professional (PMP) Registered Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design accredited professional (LEED) Certified Facilities Manager Member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA I do not possess any of the licenses, registrations or certifications above. 2 Do you have experience managing a design project that is in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience with on-site management of a construction project that is in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required True 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 4 Select the&nbsp;phases of design in which you have actively worked either directly with the client or under the supervision of others and for which you have proficiency. Answer to this question is required Programming (field survey, researching design requirements, program development) Schematic design (adjacency studies, space planning, concept sketches, schedule and budget coordination) Design development (architectural millwork drawings, material and finish evaluation, presentation renderings and communication to the client) Construction drawings and specifications (generating plans, elevations, detail drawings, and specifications; coordination with other disciplines – i.e. structural, mechanical, electrical) Construction administration and project management None of the above 5 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed Division One specifications. Developed architectural specifications. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop designs. Provided design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents and building code requirements. None of the above 6 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant monumental building? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Developed design and construction documents. Developed technical specifications. Developed general provisions (e.g., client needs, program of requirements, site restrictions and limitations, etc.). Reviewed cost estimates associated with the design. Completed historic preservation research. None of the above 7 I have led the coordination effort of architectural and multiple engineering disciplines during design development. Answer to this question is required True 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 8 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., planning, programming, scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. 9 I managed a project requiring extensive coordination of internal staff and contractors that was completed on time and within budget. Answer to this question is required True 9.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. False 10 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Monitored A/E contractor performance for effectiveness in meeting contractual, functional and technical requirements. Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 11 Select the project planning activities you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Identified project requirements Developed project plans Created project schedules and timelines Developed project budgets Developed programming documents Developed project specifications Reviewed construction documents Coordinated engineering consultant’s documents for inclusion in construction documents Inspected completed work products None of the above 12 Have you independently performed quality assurance and quality control on construction documents? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have made binding decisions within my scope of authority on a regular and recurring basis to resolve project issues in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Do you have a current Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR) certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns Led a presentation or facilitated routine meetings with clients None of the above 16 Do you have experience writing architectural specifications and design analysis reports? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 17 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Reports of findings Scope of Work, Task orders, White paper, Agency or company design standards Acquisition plan, Project management plan Procurement documents (e.g., addenda, bulletins, plans, board selection reports) Specifications Quality standards Slide content (e.g. PowerPoint presentations) Cost benefit analysis Technical and Non-technical report version on the same project issue Business correspondence (e.g. letters, emails, etc.) None of the above 18 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to oral presentations. Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience related to oral presentations. I completed training or education related to oral presentation techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have assisted senior staff prepare for presentations by gathering and organizing information. I have presented non-technical information (e.g., project status). I have presented technical information (e.g., design specifications). I have presented strategic information and recommendations (e.g., option summaries with anticipated project impacts). 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.