Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following best demonstrates your knowledge of safety and occupational health concepts and principles to develop courses of action to resolve safety and health problems? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team of specialists conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a museum or cultural facility. I have experience with physical ergonomic issues in the workplace. I do not have any experience in this area. 5 Which of the following statements best describe the most complex safety and technical document you have prepared? Answer to this question is required I have prepared a technical report or peer-reviewed manuscript that provided a comprehensive description of a specific health and safety hazard and associated prevention strategies with citations of reference literature and standards. I have prepared a comprehensive safety and health plan or training program for a company, office or worksite. I have prepared safety and health fact sheets. I have training or education in preparing safety documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have any experience in this area. 6 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to develop concepts based on a synthesis of information obtained from the current literature, safety and health professionals, and collaborations with senior scientists? Answer to this question is required I have had primary responsibility for overseeing one or more projects related to occupational safety and health or environmental health. I have had primary responsibility for a portion of a project related to occupational safety and health or environmental health. I was a member of a project team related to occupational safety and health. I do not have any experience in this area. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience leading teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience leading teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience leading teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 Which of the following describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of safety and occupational health program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interacted successfully with employees and mid and higher levels of management. I have made oral presentations on a variety of safety and occupational health topics. I have interviewed employees to acquire specific details on hazardous operations. I have instructed training sessions on a variety of safety and occupational health topics to varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have worked effectively with upper management, program staff, and the general public, private business groups, and government agency groups while maintaining excellent interpersonal and team player skills. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience providing advice to management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I make technical recommendations regarding unsafe practices, which require departure from existing management policy. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the resolution of safety problems. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the development of safety procedures. I have provided technical guidance and assistance on diverse environmental and hazardous conditions in widely dispersed geographic locations. I have administered occupational health programs within the organizational unit, including medical monitoring, immunizations, and injury/accident reporting. I have developed and administered safety related training programs that inform and educate employees. I have maintained records of employee attendance at safety related training and sent out notices of refresher training when due. I have not performed any of these tasks. 10 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of corrective measures for eliminating or controlling environmental, safety and health hazards? Answer to this question is required I have experience in recommending and/or implementing a variety of corrective measures, including removal or substitution of hazardous materials or equipment, modifications to equipment or work processes to minimize hazards, and use of personal protective equipment. I have experience in recommending and implementing a limited set of corrective actions for relatively routine problems, such as housekeeping. I have experience in ensuring that environmental, health and safety guidelines are followed. I do not have experience in this area. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths and serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths and serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in the investigations of worker deaths and serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated regular accidents and minor safety and health incidents. I have led or participated in the investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 12 Which of the following describes your experience in communicating information in written format? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operated environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 13 Do you have experience researching and gathering occupational injury and illness statistical data to perform occupational risk assessments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following best reflects your experience in providing safety training to staff and visitors? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed training plans, manuals, presentations, and delivered safety training to staff visitors and contractors in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have assisted in developing training plans, manuals, and presentations on safety training in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have given oral presentations. I have no experience in this area. 15 Which of the following reflects your experience in creating training resources for staff and visitors choose all that apply? Answer to this question is required I have independently written laboratory safety plans. I have assisted with writing laboratory safety plans. I have independently written training materials and guides. I have assisted with writing training materials and guides. I have written web applications and presentations on safety. I have developed PowerPoint presentations on safety. I have no experience in this area. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.