Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 I understand that this position has a fixed schedule that includes working on Saturdays and that I will be placed in either one of the below schedules if selected for this position: Schedule 1: Monday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Tuesday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Thursday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Friday &ndash; 8:15am-4:45pm Saturday &ndash; 8:15am-4:45pm Schedule 2: Tuesday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Wednesday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Thursday &ndash; 11:45am-8:15pm Friday &ndash; 8:15am-4:45pm Saturday &ndash; 8:15am-4:45pm Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Ability to provide customer service. ** Provided quality customer service in a positive and professional manner by recognizing client needs, putting the client first, and maintaining a professional image in a library or office setting. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment or library, provided customer service in person and via multiple communication channels (e.g., telephone, email, chat, online, and written documents). Responded to various routine customer inquiries regarding product services, rules, and procedures. Handled the needs of customers and/or library patrons through first-contact resolution. Processed customer registration in an accurate and timely manner. Maintained and updated customer records and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) in a database. Maintained records of customer interactions or transactions, recording details of inquiries. Identified customer complaints and offered solutions to resolve complaints. Provided information to customers, answered customer questions, and gave additional details regarding programs or events. Followed through to ensure customer complaints were resolved in an established time frame. Worked independently or as part of a team to accomplish unit goals. In a professional environment or library, provided customer service in person and via multiple communication channels (e.g., telephone, email, chat, online, and written documents). Responded to various routine customer inquiries regarding product services, rules, and procedures. Handled customer needs through first-contact resolutions and processed customer requests in an accurate and timely manner. Assisted customers and/or library patrons with procedures for filing complaints and outlined any documentation required. Used pre-established rules and procedures for resolving customer complaints. In a professional environment or library, provided customer service in person and via multiple communication channels (e.g., telephone, email, chat, online, and written documents). Responded to various routine customer inquiries regarding product services, rules, and procedures. Accurately processed customer or library patron requests. Referred customer complaints to a supervisor for resolution. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide clerical and administrative support in various office activities. ** Provided and performed clerical and/or administrative support by performing the following activities: 1) maintaining specialized equipment (e.g., badging printers), 2) issuing reader/membership cards or credentials, 3) applying organization changes to assigned work, 4) disseminating information and necessary forms to patrons or customers, and 5) utilizing a registration system (e.g., customer database). Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the activities listed above in a library, agency or professional organization. Performed (4) FOUR of the activities listed above in a library, agency or professional organization. Performed (3) THREE of the activities listed above in a library, agency or professional organization. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations. Selected and appropriately applied guidelines, maintained an awareness of changing regulations and standards, and ensured the use of the most current guidance. Answer to this question is required Interpreted, explained, and applied moderately complex regulations and standards to accomplish required actions in support of an organization or group responsible for providing services. Ensured the use of current guidelines in completing forms and preparing correspondence. Applied technical and/or procedural instructions to complete tasks and meet organizational needs. Responded to inquiries following standardized procedures, while interpreting and explaining office policies. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to operate and maintain specialized equipment. Operated and maintained specialized equipment to perform tasks associated with library or office functions, such as: 1) operating badging terminals, card printers, and cameras; 2) maintaining equipment used by patrons; 3) troubleshooting equipment malfunctions and referring to service calls when appropriate; 4) preparing equipment such as workstation computers, card printers, and cameras for operation; and 5) monitoring operations during machine processing for failures and unexpected errors. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above tasks to operate and maintain specialized equipment associated with library or office functions. Performed (4) FOUR of the above tasks to operate and maintain specialized equipment associated with library or office functions. Performed (3) THREE of the above tasks to operate and maintain specialized equipment associated with library or office functions. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).