Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS/GL-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Inventory Management Specialist must be able to communicate with people at all levels at Central Office as well as in the Regional Offices using clear and concise language. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared routine reports concerning status of inventory; and/or I have documented changes in inventory; and/or I have written memoranda to staff concerning disposition of property. I have assisted in preparing inventory management reports; and/or I have assisted with documenting inventory changes; and/or I have assisted in preparation of Annual Inventory Status Reports to be sent to region. I have prepared detailed reports to ensure compliance with inventory management policy; and/or I have written proposals for changes in Central Office inventory procedures; and/or I have prepared reports concerning complex inventory issues to department heads and executive staff. None of the above. 3 The Inventory Management Specialist must be able to give training and technical guidance clearly and effectively to staff concerning proper methods of performing and reconciling inventories. He/she must be able to effectively discuss and report inventory management concerns with Central Office department heads and executive staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed management on an inventory management issue; and/or I have conducted training on routine inventory management procedures; and/or I have gathered technical information regarding inventory management through direct contact with Financial Management staff. I have directed Accountable Property Officers (APOs) concerning Annual Inventory; and/or I have assisted with the gathering of technical information for inventory management or a similar purpose; and/or I have maintained contact with Financial Management staff. I have met with department heads, program managers, or executive staff in order to discuss inventory management issues; and/or I have communicated with external contacts to Central Office to resolve problems; and/or I have communicated technical information with property management specialists in government agencies such as the General Services Administration (GSA) or the Defense Re-utilization Marketing Offices (DRMOs). None of the above. 4 The Inventory Management Specialist must work independently with little direct supervision. Therefore, he/she must have the ability to plan and organize their own work without specific instructions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted property walk-thru of Central Office; and/or I have listed excess property and property in need of repair; and/or I have entered data into computer system. I have contacted, identified, and acquired property from the General Services Administration (GSA); and/or I have entered data into the SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS); and/or I have recognized and corrected discrepancies in inventory records; and/or I have conducted physical inventories. I have acquired property from the General Services Administration (GSA); and/or I have corrected discrepancies in inventory records; and/or I have gathered and prepared data for entry into the SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS). None of the above. 5 The Inventory Management Specialist must be able to input, retrieve, organize, and analyze complex computer data.&nbsp; He/she will use personal computers, the SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS), Financial Management Information System (FMIS) Accounting System, and procurement related programs to track inventory and produce written reports.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created and analyzed reports using data from SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS)/ Financial Management Information System (FMIS) Accounting system; and/or I have entered inventory data into the SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS); and/or I have acquired items from General Services Administration (GSA) or other federal agencies. I have created reports using the personal computer and SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS); and/or I have entered and checked data using SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS); and/or I have generated monthly reports. I have used Microsoft software to create documents/reports; and/or I have tracked items using a spreadsheet; and/or I have sent electronic mail to follow-up and provide information to others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).