Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Do you have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to Grade 12 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This position has an education requirement. Choose the one statement that best describes your education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required Completion of at least 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree. A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided a knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. I do NOT meet either of the requirements as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness, and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following describes your participation in the strategic planning of a library? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have managed a library strategic planning process. I have participated in a library strategic planning process. I have contributed to a library strategic planning process. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describe your experience advising management? Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee moral, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and to reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations. None of the above 6 Which of the following describe your experience with collection development and planning? ( Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed a materials budget for acquisition of library resources (books, serials, electronic resources). I have updated/revised a existing collection development policies to adhere to changing needs of the library. I have developed a collection development policy for the library. I have developed or updated library operations manual for a library. None the above 7 Which of the following describes your experience in performing reference and research services, creating reference resources, and outreach programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided in-depth reference service that might include one-on-one consultations, extensive on-line searching, and the compilation of resources to high-level researchers (i.e., curators, research associates, fellows and/or postdocs. I have conducted workshops or sessions in using specialized resources or in advanced techniques for library research. I have created subject guides and/or bibliographies (either print or online). I have created and/or conducted orientation programs that promote and highlight the services and collections of a research library. I have supervised staff who perform references services and outreach programs. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best represents your experience in building research-level print and electronic science library collections? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I am experienced in collection development and have provided guidance or supervision to others. I have performed collection development under the direction of a supervisor or other manager. I have performed collection development independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have had training or education related to collection development, but I have not performed it on the job. I have no relevant experience. 9 Which of the following best represents your experience conducting outreach in a library setting? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing such tasks and have provided guidance or supervision to others. I have performed such tasks independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed such tasks under the direction of a supervisor or manager. I have had training or education related to such tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no relevant experience. 10 What is your level of on the job experience ensuring that policies and procedures are properly followed? Answer to this question is required I have experience routinely monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed, proactively remained up to date on policies and procedures, and trained or advised others on proper policies and procedures. I have experience routinely monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed and proactively remained up to date on policies and procedures. I have experience occasionally monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed, and remained up to date on proper policies and procedures as needed or assigned. I have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed and remained up to date on proper policies and procedures as needed or assigned. I have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed. I do not have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed. 11 What is your experience developing policies and guidelines affecting agency/organizational programs? Answer to this question is required I have performed this work in my previous jobs. I have not performed this work. I have developed policies and guidelines that are widely used across the organization. I have planned and developed library programs and projects. I have had training but have not done the work as a regular part of my job. 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed for library budgets? Answer to this question is required I help develop project specific budgets for my library. I recommend changes for department and/or program budgets. I have been responsible for execution of project specific budgets. I have worked with colleagues to formulate and disseminate budget reports. I have created and distributed budget reports. None of the above. 13 Which of the following do you have experience planning, developing, managing, and overseeing budgets and financial operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience with the coordination and preparation an annual budget and supporting data. I have experience with budget formulation and execution. I have experience coordinating and managing funds. I have experience developing and implementing processes to monitor and maintain budget status. None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and justifying budget requests? Answer to this question is required I have not developed or justified budget requests. I have education or training developing or justifying budget requests, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience developing or justifying budget requests and related supporting documentation. I have experience monitoring and tracking obligations and expenditures for organizational functions. I have experience developing and justifying budget requests for a large program or organization, which are funded by standard funding means. I have experience developing and justifying budget requests for large programs or organizations, which are funded by a mixture of sources. 15 Which statement best describes your previous supervisory experience? Answer to this question is required I have provided clear, consistent goals and guidelines to those under your supervision; provided regular feedback regarding performance including taking disciplinary action when required, have full responsibility for creating performance plans and conducting performance appraisals, and have coordinated schedules and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided goals and guidelines for those under your supervision, provided regular feedback regarding performance, participated in creating performance plans and performance reviews along with a supervisor, and coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have coordinated schedules for supervised employees and have observed others creating performance plans and conducting performance reviews. I have no previous supervisory experience. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in leading or supervising a team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience supervising or leading teams to accomplish goals. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have served as a team leader over a group of employees to complete projects and/ or daily tasks. I have led teams that required solving complex problems collectively, motivate others, and resolved controversial issues. I have held a supervisory position with responsibility for setting priorities, mentoring, training, and the development of subordinates or others. 17 Which of the following most accurately reflects your highest level of experience that demonstrates your potential to lead a team or participate in the management of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have served as a project leader, established and communicated the project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided regular reports on progress to my managers, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I independently perform the duties and responsibilities of my position; determine the course of action to take, plan and carry out my assignments, consult with others as necessary, and resolve any conflicts. I keep my supervisor advised of progress, any controversial conflicts or issues, and/or matters that may affect policy or have far-reaching implications. I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I perform the duties and responsibilities of my position with general directions for common assignments but require more specific direction and guidance from higher level specialists or supervisors for more complex or politically sensitive assignments. I do not have any experience leading a team or participating in the management of an organization. 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience demonstrating your potential to supervise a group of employees? Answer to this question is required I have not held senior, lead, or supervisory positions. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have held a lead or senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instruction on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization; assigning tasks among team members; monitoring the status and progress of work in accordance with established priorities, and providing reports on individual performance, progress, and training needs of team members and on any performance problems. I have served as a project leader, established and communicated the project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities which included developing goals, milestones, and work plans; balancing and distributing employees' workload, evaluating job performance, mediating/or negotiating resolutions to employee problems and conflicts, recommending employees for recognition, promotion, developmental training; and recommending or hiring new employees. 19 Which of the following types of staff have you supervised in library? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional librarians. Library technicians. Interns and/or Fellows. Contractors. Student workers. Volunteers. None of the above. 20 Which of the following kinds of leadership have you done in a museum, academic or a research library? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff. I have managed a large and busy library. I have developed performance plans and conducted performance reviews. I have functioned as a middle-level manager in a large library system. I have mentored other employees. I have had to deal with disciplinary issues for subordinates at work. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.