Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree. This education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service. In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described on the vacancy announcement, which is equivalent to the work of the position and is equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service. This education and experience meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to U.S. foreign policy in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Area Studies International Law Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environmental, Science and Technology Energy Homeland Security Clearing intelligence for use with foreign governments Counterterrorism-related sanctions Economics International Development Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Counterterrorism regimes International crime and drugs Counterterrorism None of the above 6 From the following list, please identify which source(s) you have used in preparing analyses / assessments: Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communication Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences / symposia Interviews Press / public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet Georeferenced data None of the above 7 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interest among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 9 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchange Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of and compliance with international agreements / commitments / regimes. International crime and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption None of the above 10 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings Civic Organizations None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience in setting priorities to meet your professional responsibilities? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I adjust my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I normally resolve the conflicts independently. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I adjust my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In resolving conflicts, I involve the team leader or supervisor. I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed within the assigned deadlines and milestones. When priorities conflict, I consult with the team leader or supervisor. None of the above 13 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared issue and/or briefing papers to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, adherence to requirements, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of analyses have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or financial Sociological Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Verification of and/or compliance with international agreements, commitments, and regimes Counterterrorism Legal Spatial None of the above Grade: 12 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to U.S. foreign policy and democracy promotion in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Rule of law Human rights Anti-corruption Good governance Political process and elections Civil society Civic education Media Public diplomacy None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Internal memorandum Publications Books Academic papers Journal articles Thesis Dissertation Assessments Newspaper articles None of the above 7 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 8 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your depth of experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working with foreign assistance programs / projects, but no experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects, but have not worked with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have experience working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I am highly experienced in working and coordinating foreign assistance strategies and programs / projects with officials throughout the foreign affairs community. I have trained others in this capacity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 From the following lists, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses relative to US foreign economic sanctions policy: Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications U.S. Government documents Foreign Government documents Intelligence reports Internet Business documents Sanctions regulations Executive Orders Legislation (state and federal) Books and journal articles Export control regulations Press / public media None of the above 12 Please select the types of policy strategies you have developed: Answer to this question is required Counterterrorism Political Historical Financial Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Sanctions regimes Foreign None of the above 13 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 14 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to U.S. foreign policy and democracy promotion in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Rule of law Human rights Anti-corruption Good governance Political process and elections Civil society Civic education Media Public diplomacy None of the above 6 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses/assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences/symposia Interviews Press/public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet None of the above 7 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 8 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchange Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of and compliance with international agreements / commitments / regimes. International crime and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption None of the above 9 Which of the following statements BEST describes your background working on inter- and intra-organizational coordination? Answer to this question is required I have never needed to coordinate among offices, agencies, or organizations as part of my job. I have coordinated among offices in my same organization, for example on issues related to projects, policies, or budgets. I have coordinated among agencies or organizations, for example on issues related to projects, or budgets. I have coordinated among agencies or organizations, on issues related to official policy. I have led the coordination among different organizations or agencies, on issues related to official policies or programs. 10 Which of the following types of analyses have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or financial Sociological Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Multilateral Security Intelligence Historical Verification of and/or compliance with international agreements, commitments, and regimes Counterterrorism International Crime and Drugs Legal / Criminal Justice None of the above 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 12 Please select the types of policy strategies you have developed: Answer to this question is required Counterterrorism Political Historical Financial Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Sanctions regimes Foreign None of the above 13 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 14 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.