Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the private sector leading, coaching, mentoring or training others (formally or informally) in a customer service function and experience in customer service quality management and monitoring principles. Examples include: serving as a quality analyst, coach or team lead in a retirement, healthcare, or financial services call center or customer service operation. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the private sector as described above?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the following options related to the skill in managing&nbsp;resources to meet&nbsp;customer service goals&nbsp;and objectives , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience identifying customer issues and assisting with the development and implementation of a solution experience leading projects experience measuring unit performance against predetermined customer service goals and objectives to determine if objectives were met experience developing project plans for team members to achieve improvements to customer service quality or customer satisfaction none of the above 3 From the following options related to skill in customer service , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience playing the lead role on a team experience analyzing customer data to identify quality improvements to communications or customer support services experience developing, delivering, and measuring the effectiveness of customer solutions experience working with a team to develop and implement process improvements to improve the effectiveness of customer support services experience playing a subject matter expert role in large-scale customer service projects/initiatives none of the above 4 From the following options related to knowledge of customer&nbsp;service performance&nbsp;objectives and how to measure them, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required experience providing technical direction to team members, following up on work assignments, and evaluating the quality of others’ deliverables experience developing remediation plans and tracking the plan experience developing and/or monitoring performance objectives experience leading the solution of issues related to customer service none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).