Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised and led a diverse workforce that included: 1) establishing realistic goals and standards; 2) supplying regular, constructive feedback and mentoring staff; 3) seeking participation of staff in planning, decision making and team building; 4) identifying skills and ability of staff and any skill gaps for current and future needs; 5) providing opportunities for career development/advancement; 6) hiring staff; 7) addressing performance and disciplinary matters; 8) communicating performance expectations; 9) conducting timely and periodic performance evaluations; 10) planning and assigning work; 11) ensuring tasks are appropriately delegated and satisfactorily completed; and 12) fostering an environment valuing diversity, integrity, and honesty focused on ongoing improvement to self, others and customer service. Answer to this question is required In a leadership capacity, supervised and led a diverse workforce and executed the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including ALL of the above. In a leadership capacity, supervised and led a diverse workforce and executed the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including TEN (10) or ELEVEN (11) of the above. In a leadership capacity, supervised and led a diverse workforce and executed the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of program management principles, concepts, and techniques as applied to leading the work of multiple business operations within an archival media preservation and access facility.** Applied professional knowledge of management concepts and techniques to manage complex programs and achieve cost-effective results within an archival media preservation and access facility. Experience with the following: 1) preparing and executing budgets, 2) initiating and executing contracts, 2) developing new policies and procedures, 3) evaluating current and proposed operations and services, 4) allocating human, technical, and financial resources, and 5) planning and implementing programs and projects for audiovisual media archiving or library operations. Answer to this question is required As a manager responsible for two (2) or more business units in a large government agency, corporation, or professional association, initiated, planned and executed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager responsible for one (1) business unit with ten (10) or more direct reports in a large government agency, corporation, or professional association, initiated, planned and executed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager responsible for one (1) or more business units demonstrated extensive knowledge of principles, concepts and techniques of program management. Performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to apply project management methodologies and techniques to manage complex information technology projects to support preservation and access to archival moving image and recorded sound.** Applied project management methods and techniques to manage complex information technology and other technology driven projects to support the mission of preservation and access to archival moving image and recorded sound collections. These include, but are not limited to: 1) strategic planning for technology investments, 2) cost and schedule development, 3) resource management, 4) work breakdown structure (WBS), 5) quality control, 6) configuration control, 7) systems life cycle management, and 8) scope management. Answer to this question is required Utilized SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above listed methods and techniques to manage complex IT projects impacting the entire AGENCY/ORGANIZATION. Utilized FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above listed methods and techniques to manage complex IT projects impacting an entire AGENCY/ORGANIZATION. Utilized AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above listed methods and techniques to manage complex IT projects impacting an entire BUSINESS UNIT. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to analyze organizational and operational issues and workflows and develop solutions to support the mission of preservation and access to archival moving image and recorded sound collections.** Developed, planned, implemented, and analyzed the strategies necessary to execute program services, including the work of administration and technology units to preserve and provide access to archival moving image and recorded sound collections. Provided appropriate strategies to solve program and/or organizational and operational issues and problems. Functions performed include: 1) finalizing new or enhanced procedures and policies, 2) independently making ongoing technical judgments and recommendations to improve the quality of operations, 3) analyzed new ideas to develop/create best practices and standards, and 4) justifying new and revised programs and projects to upper management in the ongoing effort to more effectively reach an organization&rsquo;s goals and achieve its mission. Answer to this question is required Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and/or evaluating MULTIPLE operational services or programs by performing ALL of the functions listed above. Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and/or evaluating ONE (1) operational service or program by performing ALL of the functions listed above. Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and/or evaluating operating service(s) or program(s) by performing THREE (3) of the functions listed above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing in performing supervisory or leader work. Demonstrated the ability to produce written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory or lead responsibilities performed such as: 1) technology investment proposals; 2) performance evaluations and plans; 3) counseling/disciplinary memos; 4) information for public dissemination in print and/or electronic form; 5) strategic/long-term program plans; 6) policies and procedures; 7) annual and statistical reports; 8) budget plans and reports; 9) contract statements of work; 10) project plans and 11) technical assessment reports. Answer to this question is required Wrote ALL of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area of a leadership position. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a national program area. Wrote AT LEAST SIX (6) of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area of a leadership position. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. Wrote AT LEAST SIX (6) of the documents listed above in the specialization or subject matter area of a position. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services. Worked well and cooperated with others as a leader, team member, or liaison, including decision-makers and their staffs, other specialists, and experts in the same and other disciplines inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required As a PRIMARY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated AGENCY/ORGANIZATION-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. As a PRIMARY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated DIVISION OR UNIT-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. Coordinated and integrated a significant effort requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).