Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list, please identify the regions and/or countries of sub-Saharan Africa in which you have experience and/or education: Answer to this question is required Nigeria Ghana West Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, the Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, and/or Togo) Rwanda Central Africa (Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Republic of Congo, and/or Sao Tome and Principe) Ethiopia Mauritius Somalia Tanzania East Africa (Comoros, Djibouti, Eritrea, Kenya, Madagascar, Seychelles, and/or Uganda) South Africa Angola Sudan Southern Africa (Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia, and/or Zimbabwe) None of the above 6 With which of the following multilateral organizations do you have experience working on contemporary issues in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region? Answer to this question is required Arab League European Union United Nations Multinational Force and Observers Organization of the Islamic Cooperation North Atlantic Treaty Organization Arab Magreb Union Gulf Cooperation Council None of the above 7 From the following list of global partners in the fight against international terrorism, select the organizations with which you have experience and an in-depth knowledge of their membership and operations: Answer to this question is required Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Association of Southeast Asian Nations Regional Forum (ARF) European Union (EU) G-8 / G-7 North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Organization of American States / Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism (OAS / CICTE) United Nations (UN) African Union (AU) Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) None of the above 8 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 9 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to U.S. foreign policy in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Area Studies International Law Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environmental, Science and Technology Energy Homeland Security Clearing intelligence for use with foreign governments Counterterrorism-related sanctions Economics International Development Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Counterterrorism regimes International crime and drugs Counterterrorism None of the above 10 Which of the following type(s) of analysis have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or Financial Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Social or Cultural None of the above 11 I have performed data analyses to support the following objectives: Answer to this question is required Develop long range program planning. Determine overall project execution methodology. Determine specific project activities. Resolve project specific issues. None of the above. 12 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchange Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of and compliance with international agreements / commitments / regimes. International crime and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption None of the above 13 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical / technical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical / technical reports for external audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have prepared issue papers and/or materials for briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 15 Please identify, from the following list, those sectors of the foreign affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required US Department of State (DoS) Other foreign affairs or national security agencies (e.g., Department of Defense (DoD), Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)) USAID White House (e.g. National Security Council (NSC), Office of Science & Technology Policy (OSTP)) Private Industry International organizations (e.g., United Nations (UN), North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)) Non-governmental organizations Think Tanks Academia None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.