Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one answer which best describes your work experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 12 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have 1 full year of specialized experience as described. 2 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed successfully in projects that you led or were assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your ability to direct the flow of projects and assignments to subordinate staff in an organization? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience directing the flow of projects and assignments to subordinate staff. I have directed the flow of projects and assignments to subordinate staff on a non-recurring basis and/or in the absence of my supervisor. I have directed the flow of projects and assignments to subordinate staff as a regular part of a job (independently and usually without oversight from senior management). I have directed the flow of projects and assignments to subordinate staff as a central or major part of my work (as a member of senior leadership). 5 Which of the following represent your level of experience with developing budgets and spending plans as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed one or more multiple-year projects. I have developed one or more projects with a mixture of time-limited and no-year funding. I have developed one or more projects with multiple funding streams. I have developed one or more projects using advance (loan) accounts requiring budgeting for interest expenses and loan payments. I have managed projects with salaries and benefits, design and fabrication. I have developed one or more projects for which I approved all expenditures. None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your highest level of budget monitoring for a project: Answer to this question is required I have monitored project expenditures and kept the team informed. I have monitored project expenditures and alerted the team members to overspending. I have monitored project expenditures and led the team in agreeing to cut specific expenses. I have monitored project expenditures and cut specific expenses to avoid overspending. I have monitored project expenditures, projected shortages in the out years and persuaded team to agree to cut specific expenses. I have not monitored project expenditures in any of these manners. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating, managing, tracking and overseeing multiple budgets including monitoring the use and rate of expenditures? Answer to this question is required I have experience formulating, managing, tracking and overseeing multiple budgets including monitoring the use and rate of expenditures. I have experience managing, tracking and overseeing multiple budgets including monitoring the use and rate of expenditures. I have experience tracking and overseeing multiple budgets including monitoring the use and rate of expenditures. I do not have related experience. 8 Which of the following best represents your experience in developing museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the development of exhibitions. I have developed museum installations. I have worked as part of a team to develop exhibitions. I have developed exhibitions or installations in an arts center or similar setting. I have independently developed multiple museum exhibitions including borrowed objects and related programs and publications. I have curated museum exhibitions which toured to other venues. None of the above 9 Which of the following statements describe your experience with museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked in a museum or arts center with changing exhibitions. I have worked in a museum exhibitions office. I have created or revised exhibition checklists in a museum. I have worked with multiple versions of exhibition checklists while ensuring use of the most recent information. I have tracked or monitored exhibition production schedules. I have produced or constructed exhibition components. I have coordinated production of exhibition components. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following activities related to museum exhibition management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a project manager in a museum setting tasked with overseeing the development and installation of a museum exhibition. I have served on a project team in a museum setting tasked with developing/installing a museum exhibition. I have reviewed exhibition design and build proposals for technical accuracy. I have served as a COTR on exhibition contracts. I have prepared statements of work and formal requests for proposals (RFPs) in support of exhibition contracts. I have created purchase orders in support of the development and installation of a museum exhibition. I have regularly worked with exhibition and collection staff as a member of a project team. None of the above. 11 Which of the following describes your experience working with exhibit design and production contracts on a regular basis? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience soliciting and selecting contractors and managing multiple contracts simultaneously. I have experience writing scopes of work for outside contracts required for successful implementation of exhibit projects from concept through completion. I have experience preparing requests for quotes and proposals for contracts. I have experience soliciting contract proposals. I have experience conducting market research for appropriate vendors. None of the above 12 Which of the following activities related to project management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and managed project schedules, task lists, and plans. I have conducted project reviews. I have prepared and monitored budgets. I have used analysis to keep projects on budget and schedule. I have prepared statements/scopes of work for the purpose of receiving contract proposals. I have negotiated and tracked complicated budgets and schedules. I have managed multi-disciplinary teams. I have prepared/managed request for proposals and request for quotes. I have developed and tracked completion of work assignments for project team members. I have completed training in the use of project management software. I have completed formal project management training. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements reflect your experiences in ensuring that the project is successfully accomplished? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. I have reviewed the work of team members and have provided guidance and training. I have set program or project goals and objectives to be accomplished. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. I have established and tracked program goals and objectives related to performance measures. I have established and monitored project cost controls. I have established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. I have set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. I have led a team or group with various levels of experience, skills, orientation, or perspective. I have established and coordinated policies, standard operating procedures, etc. I have prepared schedules for completion of work. I have assigned work to team members based on priorities. I have managed projects simultaneously of varying scope, size and budget. All or most of my projects have been delivered on time. I have not performed any of these tasks. 14 Which of the following activities represent your experience in managing purchasing and contracting as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a contracting representative. I have performed market research and obtained quotes for simple acquisitions. I have served on contract evaluation and selection committees. I have developed purchase orders. I have monitored contract performance and approved work for payment. I have monitored multiple contracts with varying schedules. I have managed rights-in-data or similar permissions for digital and traditional images. I have written statements of work for Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs). None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.