Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and/or education. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please make sure your resume supports the response you select. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR I have successfully completed three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR related LL.M. My education demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position and that is in or related to the position to be filled. I possess a combination of experience and graduate level education as described above, which, when combined, is equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirements. (Please note that only graduate education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be used in this calculation.) I do not possess the education or experience described above. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Developing and implementing K&ndash;12 educational programs, curriculum, or resources related to history, civics, and/or government in a museum, historic site, cultural institution, or similar learning environment; (2) Leading staff, educators, volunteers, or project teams in a museum or similar learning environment in the development educational programs; and (3) Initiating and developing partnerships with educational institutions that support professional development programs Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Independently planning, developing, implementing, and evaluating K&ndash;12 educational programs, curriculum, or resources related to history, civics, and/or government in a museum, historic site, cultural institution, or similar informal learning environment; (2) Supervising a team in a museum or similar learning environment responsible for educational programming, including assigning and reviewing work, evaluating performance, providing guidance and resolving workplace or performance issues; and (3) Initiating and developing partnerships with educational institutions that support professional development programs. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your experience leading staff, educators, volunteers, or project teams responsible for developing or delivering educational programs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have participated as a member of a team but have not served in a leadership role. I have occasionally led staff, volunteers, or project teams with guidance from a supervisor. I have independently led teams, assigned or coordinated work, provided guidance, and monitored completion of educational programs or projects. I have led multiple or complex educational teams or projects and have regularly provided direction, resolved problems, and guided others in accomplishing program objectives. 2 Which statement best describes your experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have no experience supervising employees. I have served as a team or project lead but have not formally supervised employees. I have supervised employees with responsibility for some supervisory functions, such as assigning work or providing feedback. I have formally supervised employees, including assigning and reviewing work, establishing priorities, evaluating performance, and providing coaching or guidance. I have extensive supervisory experience that includes the responsibilities described above, as well as resolving conflicts, addressing performance issues, and developing or improving employee performance. 3 For which of the following type(s) of audiences have you developed programs? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required General public Families Primary and secondary school students Teachers (Professional Development) Adults International visitors Volunteers None of the above 4 What teaching and/or learning styles and strategies have you implemented? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Direct instruction (traditional; lectures and teacher–led demonstrations) Inquiry-based learning (investigative and hands-on learning) Cooperative learning (emphasis on group work) Facilitator (focuses on activities) Object-based learning None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience with designing new K-12 curriculum based programs and resources in the subjects of United States civics, history and/or government? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have formal education and/or training in this task, but I have not yet applied this in a work situation. I have worked as a team member designing new education programs and/or resources. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have routinely performed this task and have trained and/or provided advice to others in the performance of this task. This task has been a major part of my work. 6 For which purposes have you interacted with others on projects related to the presentation of historical or related topics? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required To develop interpretive goals. To determine methods of presentation. To analyze effectiveness of presentation with audiences. To obtain historical data. To review the status of projects against established schedules. To review the quality of projects compared to industry standards and best practices. None of the above. 7 Which interpersonal skills have you routinely applied in a work setting? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Facilitating the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to staff Persuading and/or inspiring others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques Diffusing confrontational situations with people who were frustrated, argumentative, or upset Developing trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds Promoting the organization's goals, mission and values None of the above 8 Please select the response(s) that describes your experience communicating to audiences. Answer to this question is required I have researched a topic to assist in communicating its core elements. I have produced written information specific to one or more identified target audiences. I have responded to queries that may draw adverse public attention. None of the above. 9 Please indicate what type of educational resources, lesson plans, publications, internal training documents or other items you drafted and the audience and institution for which they were prepared. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Select the statements that describe your oral communication skills with your clients. Answer to this question is required Listened to and assured understanding of issues. Conveyed more involved, multiple-issue information to clients. Explained the application of educational program content and identified options available within established guidelines to meet clients' needs. Conducted training programs for internal audiences on educational program content. Provided guidance and advice on issues requiring interpretation and adaptation of programs. Provided advice and guidance to management officials and individual employees on educational programs when the issues were complicated by various factors. None of the above. 11 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience collaborating with stakeholders to develop and deliver public programs in museums or similar informal learning environments. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience collaborating with stakeholders. I have completed education or training related to techniques for collaborating with stakeholders, but have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have collaborated with individuals in my own organization to clarify and implement public programs. I have collaborated with representatives of other organizations to determine and implement public programs. 12 What methods of data collection did you use in planning educational displays and/or programs? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Audience studies Focus groups Visitor surveys Participant evaluations None of the above 13 Select the statement that best reflects your experience with designing new K-12 curriculum based programs and resources in the subjects of United States civics, history, government and/or art and architecture. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have formal education and/or training in this task, but I have not yet applied this in a work situation. I have worked as a team member designing new education programs and/or resources. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have routinely performed this task and have trained and/or provided advice to others in the performance of this task. This task has been a major part of my work. 14 Select all of the programs you have planned and developed for adults, children, families and/or educators. Answer to this question is required Workshops Walk-up educational activities Hands-on activities Classes Multi-session courses Teacher education Self-guided activities Virtual Programs Other formal educational programs Other informal educational programs None of the above 15 I have networked and collaborated with external agencies and organizations to develop and offer American history and civics educational programs.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 16 Which of the following American history and civics educational program activities have you developed and managed? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Identified, scheduled and budgeted long-term American history and civics educational programs. Evaluated and recommended needed adjustments to museum volunteer program objectives. Contributed to team planning for botanic garden exhibits, festivals, events and visitor services. Coordinated the use of resources to ensure smooth operations, delivery of museum educational programs and customer services for museum visitors. Identified innovative and creative solutions to workflow conflicts, scheduling and resource availability. None of the above. 17 Which of the following American history and civics activities have you planned and developed for children, families and/or educators? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Workshops Walk-up educational activities Hands-on activities Classes Multi-session courses Teacher education Self-guided activities Festivals Other formal educational programs Other informal educational programs None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.