Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Do you have knowledge and/or experience developing, implementing and/or managing an Enterprise Risk Management program while leveraging a capability maturity model? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience identifying, assessing, prioritizing, and mitigating risks for an organizational Enterprise Risk Management program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience assessing ERM program requirements and making recommendations to agency leadership? Answer to this question is required I have experience in this task/competency and am regularly asked to conduct this task/competency. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review. I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing policies, guidelines,&nbsp;procedures, templates and tools for enhancing ERM program administration? Answer to this question is required I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in developing policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have completed formal education or training in developing policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration, but have not yet performed this task on the job. 6 Do you have experience implementing or managing an ERM multi-level governance framework and chairing and/or facilitating these governance bodies across an organization to address key risk issues? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience developing a risk profile, risk assessment, risk appetites and developing a response plan for each risk, including resources available, key risk owner(s), and risk tolerance targets? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following activities relating to addressing key risk areas have you performed? &nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed an enterprise risk profile. I have developed and maintained a risk register. I have developed response plans for key risk areas. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your facilitation and project management related to audit finding resolution? Answer to this question is required I have led several teams to resolve audit findings with a strong customer focus. I have worked with senior management on resolving audit findings. I have worked with middle management championing audit finding resolutions. I have been on teams with middle and senior management. I have never worked with a team. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your experience as an Office of the Inspector General (OIG) management liaison? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience as an OIG liaison leading team that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have significant experience as an OIG liaison leading team that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have limited experience as an OIG liaison. I have experience as a team leader for an audit issue. I have experience working as a member of an audit team. I have no experience as an OIG liaison. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience managing, tracking and reporting on audit findings to senior agency leadership? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have extensive project management experience (more than 5 years) managing, tracking and reporting on audit findings to senior agency leadership, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have experience managing (2-5 years), tracking and reporting on audit findings to senior agency leadership. I have limited experience managing (under 2 years), tracking and reporting on audit findings to senior agency leadership. I have no experience. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your skill in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present complex information to non-technical program and management officials? Answer to this question is required I have developed skills in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present information to non-technical program and management officials as a central or major part of my work and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have developed skills in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present information to non-technical program and management officials as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed skills in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present information to non-technical program and management officials on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present information to non-technical program and/or management officials but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in written and oral communication in order to prepare and present information to non-technical program and/or management officials. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with insurance policy and claims programs? Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing property and claims insurance programs. I have limited knowledge about property and casualty insurance through training and/or peer exposure. I do not have knowledge about this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of internal control programs? Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing internal control programs. I have limited knowledge about internal control programs through training and/or peer exposure. I do not have knowledge about this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.