Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of full time experience at or equivalent to Grade 11 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least one year of full time experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience using the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System? (Select only one answer). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience training staff and entering data into the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. This includes approval and receiving for purchase orders and contracts, vendor files, as well as invoice and payment inquiries. I have experience entering data into the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. This includes approval and receiving for purchase orders and contracts, vendor files, as well as invoice and payment inquiries. I have experience entering data into the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. This includes approval and receiving for purchase orders and contracts. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in implementing, maintaining and supporting automated asset management systems that support the purchasing and recording of assets, processing taggable items, recording receipt of property, etc.? Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing, maintaining, and supporting automated asset management systems that support the purchasing and recording of assets, processing taggable items, recording receipt of property, etc. I have experience maintaining and supporting automated asset management systems that support the purchasing and recording of assets, processing taggable items, recording receipt of property, etc. I have experience supporting automated asset management systems that support the purchasing and recording of assets, processing taggable items, recording receipt of property, etc. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statement best describes your experience in developing physical inventory methods for non-expendable property? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience/education as it relates to computerized financial accounting systems? Answer to this question is required I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions, ensured that invoices are received and processed for payment; identified appropriate accounts, and assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generating reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions, identified appropriate accounts, and assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generating reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions. None of the above 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in applying best practices, industry standards, professional experience, policies, processes and regulations to manage a property management program? Answer to this question is required Identified and participated in the implementation of modifications to existing logistics programs, policies and procedures. Applied knowledge of industry standards and best practices. Implemented a voluntary consensus standard, industry best practice and/or ASTM standard. Developed policies and procedures to affect change in an organization-wide logistics program involving inventory, property and equipment management. Consistently applied industry standards and best practices. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 7 Which of the following certifications from the National Property Management Association (NPMA) do you have? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required CPPS - Certified Professional Property Specialist CPPA - Certified Professional Property Administrator CPPM - Certified Professional Property Manager None of the above 8 Please choose as many of the following statements which demonstrate your ability to perform day-to-day operation of the property management cycle. Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for property accountability and inventory. I have been responsible for property utilization. I have been responsible for property disposal. I have been responsible for property identification and cataloging. I have been responsible for procurement of supplies and equipment. I have been responsible for property control for contracts and grants. I have been responsible for ensuring that master property record files are established, maintained and properly closed. I have been responsible for maintaining a property control data file which included receipts of property, audits, transfers, and deletions. I have developed and administered policies and procedures for the management and control of property. I have been responsible for researching and submitting estimates of property damage/replacement costs. None of the above 9 Knowledge of property management regulations and directives governing the supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property. Answer to this question is required I have used my knowledge of property management regulations and directions governing supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in property management regulations and directions governing supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property. I have used my knowledge of property management regulations and directions governing supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in property management regulations and directions governing supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used my knowledge of property management regulations and directions governing supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following describes your level of knowledge of procurement/purchasing activities in an office environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience recording all financial transactions in ERP/PeopleSoft for a department or office at a federal agency. I have experience coordinating procurement/purchasing activities and maintaining all related permanent records in an office environment. I have experience maintaining permanent financial records for a federal agency. I have trained in basic regulations and guidelines for procurement/purchasing using federal funds. I have experience with ERP/PeopleSoft limited to basic searches for information. I have none of the above experience. 11 Do you have the knowledge of property management regulations and directives governing the supply, procurement, utilization, and disposal of personal property? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in developing and implementing inventory procedures for non-expendable property and ensuring compliance with all property management regulations and procedures? This includes supervision of property inventories, evaluation of problems encountered and formulation of solutions of the problem. Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in maintaining property accountability and control by conducting an annual physical inventory and validating data input into an automated centralized property management system? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with GSA excess personal property regulations and condition codes to properly evaluate assets for disposal methods? Answer to this question is required I have experience identifying property for correct disposal in accordance with an agency's policies and have experience disposing of Federal property through GSA. I have performed these tasks. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 15 Which of the following best reflects your ability to communicate technical and non-technical information in writing? Answer to this question is required I have experience writing only non-technical information for my peers. I have experience writing only technical information for my peers. I have experience writing both technical and non-technical information for my peers. I have written both technical and non-technical types of information on the job for superiors, co-workers, consumers, and others. I am proficient at this job function. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (representatives from Agency, Department, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the Above Apply. 17 This position requires the skill to communicate in both formal and informal settings, including communicating effectively with the organization's management officials as well as with employees, external organizations, etc. Select the response that best represents your interpersonal communication experience. Answer to this question is required As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have routinely justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or operating program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with senior management, employee organizations and/or individuals at all levels in the public Federal and private sectors to convey the relevant policies, regulations, and procedures. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly represented my office's policies and/or procedures and lead discussions and participated in workgroups. This included using effective communication skills to again a desired outcome or compliance from individual or groups skeptical or in disagreement with the policy, procedures, or regulation. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts or resolve operating or procedural problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals for groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly provided advice and assistance to those seeking employment related services from my office. Typically, the interaction would include acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.