Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience in promoting and protecting U.S. commercial interests in foreign environments? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled at promoting and protecting U.S. commercial interests in foreign environments. As a regular part of my job, I have advocated on behalf of U.S. companies with foreign governments and/or ensured that senior level employees have been effectively briefed so that they can do so at a higher level. I am widely regarded as an expert in this area and/or have trained others in commercial advocacy. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am knowledgeable about commercial advocacy issues and can effectively identify when advocacy is appropriate and/or necessary, based on my own expertise. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I am knowledgeable about commercial advocacy issues, but may consult other offices for additional information in specific cases. I have formal training or education in this area, but have not yet applied this ability in a work situation. None of the above. 6 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area Studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchanges Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Marine Environment and Fisheries Marine Sciences and Technology Ocean Sciences and Law of the Sea Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of, and compliance with, international agreements / commitments / regimes International crimes and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption Bilateral and Multilateral Treaties None of the Above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader, but not a supervisor. I have had leadership training, but have not yet supervised or lead a staff. None of the above 8 Please identify, from the following list, those sectors of the Foreign Affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private Industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) National Security Agency (NSA) Department of Defense (DOD) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Homeland Security (HS) Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) International Organizations (IO) United Nations (UN) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Non-governmental organizations dealing with energy issues Non-governmental organizations dealing with economic / commercial issues Think Tanks None of the above 9 Select the general administration and management work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Develops procurement requests for contractor support. Directs / monitors contractor efforts to ensure that contract specifications are met. Serves as the Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR) for telecommunications projects. Reviews and comments on proposed Federal and international technical standards and regulations in telecommunications. Keeps abreast of the latest developments in the telecommunications field. Reviews subordinate job descriptions for accuracy and recommends improvements in work methods and organizational structuring of positions as appropriate. Leads and/or serves on interagency committees, task forces, and advisory groups. Represents the Department / Agency at various multi-agency activities. Represents the agency / organization at meetings and discussions with representatives from the telecommunications industry and vendors. Formulates general guidelines for projects and approaches to be used by subordinates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.