Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one answer that describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for Accountant positions: Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an U.S. accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting (may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law). I have a combination of education/experience - at least 4 years experience in accounting or equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that also included one of the following: 1) 24 semester hours accounting or auditing courses (can be up to 6 hours business law); 2) A certificate as C.P.A. or Certified Internal Auditor, through written exam; or 3) completed requirements for a degree, including substantial course work in accounting/auditing (15 semester hours), but less than 24 semester hours. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the automated financial management systems are you proficient with (proficient means you understand and have utilized a major part of the systems functionality/capabilities)? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required PeopleSoft QuickBooks Oracle Crystal Reports Electronic spreadsheet application (Excel) None of the above. 4 Please select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience working with FASAB standards, OMB reporting (A-136) and US Treasury requirements. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Application of the standards and concepts in the preparation or auditing of federal financial reports. Developing written accounting and/or auditing policies, procedures, guidelines, and/or working papers. Active participation on FASAB and/or Federal work groups. Providing written feedback to FASAB and OMB on exposure draft proposals. Developing written accounting and/or auditing policies, procedures, guidelines, and/or working papers. I do not have any of the experience listed above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience researching, interpreting and applying Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in dealing with accounting and tax problems of a complex non-profit organization? Answer to this question is required I have used my GAAP experience in assisting others in addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex non-profit organization. I have used GAAP concepts as a regular part of my current position in addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex non-profit organization. I am considered an expert and sought after by management to incorporate GAAP concepts when addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex non-profit organization. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system. I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system. I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system in the private sector. I have assisted others with reconciling proprietary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger and processing transactions using an automated accounting system. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with monthly CARS 224 Reporting? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in monthly CARS reporting and adjustments. I review and analyze CARS reporting and adjustments as a regular part of my job. I assist others in analyzing CARS reporting and adjustments as a regular part of my job. I do not have any of the experience listed above. 8 Which of the following statements reflects your experience with financial management principals and policies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Experience leading quality assurance reviews internally and conjunction with external parties in accordance with the General Accepted Audit Standard (GAAS). Experience using General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and General Accepted Audit Standard (GAAS). Experience with private sector accounting techniques, principles, practices, procedures including internal controls. Experience with program financial management, including project accounting and reporting, financial management improvement program, government project accounting and reporting system, and debt obligation tracking and monitoring. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your education, training or experience in utilizing your knowledge of accounting and auditing concepts, practices, techniques, and Comptroller General standards in order to perform auditing assignments by using conventional and advanced audit techniques? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in accounting and auditing concepts, practices, techniques and Comptroller General Standards. I have education, training or experience in accounting and auditing concepts, practices, techniques and Comptroller General Standards in order to perform auditing assignments, using conventional and advanced audit techniques, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed auditing assignments, using accounting and auditing concepts, practices and Comptroller General Standards on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed auditing assignments, using accounting and auditing concepts, practices, techniques and Comptroller General Standards as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed auditing assignments, using accouting and auditing concepts, practices and Comptroller General Standards as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following describes your experience applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, concepts, and practices sufficient to develop improvement recommendations for use across organizational lines? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, etc. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have developed analyses and reconciliations related to accounting functions which involve more than one system and involve a large number of transactions cross-leveling interrelated accounting systems. I have proposed procedures and methods to resolve current problems and enhance the validity, accuracy, and integrity of financial and accounting data. I have conducted quantitative analysis of statistical data from accounting reports and financial statements to identify financial management problems. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with monthly GTAS reporting and GTAS edits? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in monthly GTAS reporting and GTAS edits. I review and analyze GTAS edits and prepare journal entries as a regular part of my job. I assist others in analyzing GTAS edits as a regular part of my job. I do not have any of the experience listed above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with compiling and analyzing the SF-133 from GTAS and tying to the Statement of Budgetary Resource (SBR) and Agency Trial Balance? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in compiling and analyzing the SF-133 from GTAS and tying to the SBR and Agency Trial Balance. I compile and analyze the SF-133 and ensure it ties to the SBR and Agency Trial Balance I assist others in compiling and analyzing the SF 133 as a regular part of my job. I do not have any of the experience listed above. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience using automated financial systems? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports, and I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of funds. I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. Experience, education, or training is less than the levels described above. None of the above. 14 Which of the following statements describes your experience relating to communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating information to groups or individuals in order to instruct, or persuade regarding activities or programs. I have experience conducting formal training sessions on technical matters. I have experience representing management in meetings. I have experience representing management at conferences. I have experience conducting informal training to others on an individual basis. I have experience presenting policies to internal and external individuals or groups. I have experience communicating information via the telephone. I have experience resolving conflicts, complaints, and problems in person or on the telephone. I have completed course work or formal training in communication skills. None of the above. 15 Do you have experience, education, or training that demonstrates your skill in interpreting, writing, and applying accounting policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following best describes your experience reviewing and analyzing accounting/auditing reports, briefing management on findings and determining required actions? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert, consulting with management regularly in reviewing and analysing accounting/auditing reports and briefing and working closely with them to determine required action. I review and analyze accounting/auditing reports and brief management on findings and recommend actions as a regular part of my job. I assist others in reviewing and analyzing accounting/auditing reports. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements describes your experience communicating to supervisors and senior managers on accounting system issues, associated risks, functional impact and data integrity concerns? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in communicating about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this level of communication in complex situations. I have experience in communicating about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have communicated about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns, independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this level of communication only in complex situations. None of the above. 18 Which of the following statements describes your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. 19 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience with oral communication? Answer to this question is required I make high-level oral presentations to decision makers regarding controversial or sensitive financial and managerial tax accounting issues. I advise management on financial and managerial tax accounting methods and procedures including interpreting information on difficult or misunderstood processes. I interpret program guidelines to provide procedural advice to management officials both within and outside the immediate organization. Experience, education, or training is less than the levels described above. None of the above 20 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience with providing management advisory services? Answer to this question is required I advise management on financial and managerial accounting methods and procedures for grants, endowments, capital expenditures, obligations, and budgetary/proprietary. I assess financial operations and make best-practice recommendations to management. I participate in meetings to increase awareness of accounting operations and build a positive working relationship with management. I explain findings by meeting face-to-face with individual customers. None of the above. 21 Which of the following statements describe your work experience in the accounting field? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Generally accepted accounting principles, issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB). Generally accepted accounting principles, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASB). Accounts receivable, including billing and collection processes. Accounts payable, including payments processes and expense recognition. Cost accounting, including cost accounting standards and requirements. Budget, including the Federal budget formulation and execution process and budgetary accounting. Revenue, including revenue recognition for reimbursable agreements, contribution income, revolving funds and user fees. Reporting, including regulatory reporting requirements, e.g., Federal Agency Centralized Trial Balance System (FACTS II) (reporting and the year-end closing statement, and preparation of the Chief Financial Officers financial statements. Cash, including preparation of reports to Treasury, e.g., FMS Form 224, and monthly Treasury reconciliations. Property, Plant, and Equipment, including construction-in-progress, plant and facilities, movable equipment, and depreciation. 22 Which of the following types of financial laws and regulations have you used within a work environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Treasury Regulations Office of Management and Budget Business Rules for Intra-Governmental transactions. Office of Management and Budget Circulars and Bulletins, especially OMB 01-02 "Audit Requirements for Federal Financial Statements" and OMB 01-09 "Form and Content of Agency Financial Statements" General Accounting Office guidance, e.g., Governmental Auditing Standards (Yellow Book), Internal Control Standards Federal Appropriation Law, Comptroller General Decisions Government Standard General Ledger Financial management legislation, including the CFO Act of 1990, the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act, the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act OMB Circulars, e.g., A-123, "Management Accountability and Control" and A-127, "Policies and Standards for Financial Management Systems" Financial Accounting Standards Board policies and procedures Other financial laws and regulations None of the above 23 Which of the following statements best describes your experience and knowledge of the principles, practices, concepts, laws and regulations applicable to accounting standards, financial reporting, and fiscal controls, used to resolve control problems and monitor internal controls? Answer to this question is required I have experience gained through working in an accounting environment analyzing and applying financial regulations laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls, identify problems, and provide solutions for improvement. I have experience gained through working in an accounting environment applying financial regulations, laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls, identify problems, and provide solutions for improvement. I have experience gained through working in an accounting environment applying financial regulations, laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls. 24 Which of the following statements best describes your experience applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, concepts, and practices sufficient to develop improvement recommendations for use across organizational lines? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, etc. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have developed analyses and reconciliations related to accounting functions which involve more than one system and involve a large number of transactions cross-leveling interrelated accounting systems. I have proposed procedures and methods to resolve current problems and enhance the validity, accuracy, and integrity of financial and accounting data. I have conducted quantitative analysis of statistical data from accounting reports and financial statements to identify financial management problems. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.