Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above, but I will meet this requirement within the next 9 months. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of completing educational requirement or current enrollment in a Ph.D. or equivalent program. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. INTERNS: Applicants currently enrolled in a Clinical Psychology Internship, may apply to this vacancy announcement within 9 months of completion. These applicants must provide a letter, signed by the Internship Program Coordinator, as proof of anticipated completion of the program within the 9 months. CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY STUDENTS: Applicants currently enrolled in a Ph.D. or equivalent program must be within 9 months of completing the required program. Applicants MUST submit a copy of their unofficial transcripts documenting current enrollment in a Ph.D. program AND upload an official letter from the Registrar's Office or Dean validating current enrollment and your program projected completion date. Failure to submit any of these required documents may result in loss of consideration for this position. Additionally, if selected, applicant's must also provide an official transcript documenting completion of a Ph.D. or equivalent degree to the institution's Human Resource Office prior to entry on duty. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Psychology Postdoctoral Trainees must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests, and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments such as: personality inventories like the MMPI or MCMI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, educational tests like the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory, neurological tests, diagnostic instruments, or suicide risk assessments; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have written a psychological report and discussed it with a client; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have written a thesis or dissertation that included assessments. As a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have conducted psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, tests of intelligence, vocational assessments, or neurological screening tests; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have scored assessments in accordance with testing protocols; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have participated in a research project that included assessments. While under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, tests of intelligence, assessment of psycho pathology, or vocational assessment; and/or while under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have written a summary of assessment results; and/or while under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have participated in a research project that included assessments. None of the above. 3 Psychology Postdoctoral Trainees must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted a psycho-educational training session on a treatment intervention like behavioral management techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, or anger management; and/or under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have participated in research on treatment such as exploring the effectiveness of relaxation training on stress reduction. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have identified individuals who could benefit from treatment interventions, such as: cognitive-behavioral treatment for depression, biofeedback treatment for anxiety or other disorders, systematic desensitization treatment for phobic disorders, suicide prevention, or substance abuse treatment; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted research to assess the effectiveness of treatment interventions; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have developed treatment plans for clients which included specific treatment goals. As a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program , I have made treatment recommendations based upon knowledge of treatment interventions, such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive/behavior interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, or relaxation training; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have observed client vignettes and made recommendations regarding appropriate treatment; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have studied the efficacy of various treatment modalities for a specific clinical diagnosis. None of the above. 4 Psychology Postdoctoral Trainees must have knowledge of mood disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand client behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of their major duties is counseling clients individually and in a group setting.&nbsp;&nbsp;Psychology Postdoctoral Trainees must have knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have provided individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique, such as: behavioral management, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psycho-educational training, biofeedback; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have co-facilitated a group therapy session; and/or as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, I have observed and critiqued other graduate students in psychology as they conducted individual or group therapy. Under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral management, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalytic therapy, psycho-educational training, or biofeedback; and/or under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, I have provided group psychotherapy. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have provided treatment using a variety of treatment techniques, such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have provided group psychotherapy to special client populations like those who batter others; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have written a thesis or dissertation that included providing treatment or an intervention to a group of adult subjects. None of the above. 5 Psychology Postdoctoral Trainees play an important role during emergencies in an institution by resolving conflicts, and assisting in crisis situations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff or calmed a patient who had threatened to self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have helped plan a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from occurring. I have reacted appropriately to a medical emergency; and/or I have calmed someone who was upset; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have assisted others during a crisis situation; and/or I have received emergency response training, such as CPR, critical incident stress debriefing, or trauma counseling. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 MOBILITY STATEMENT: A mobility statement is required for this position. Do you agree to relocate anywhere at the convenience of the Bureau of Prisons upon completion of your training? Answer to this question is required Yes, I understand that a mobility statement is required and I agree to relocate anywhere at the convenience of the Bureau of Prisons upon completion of my training. No, I do not accept the mobility requirement. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).