Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR Combination of education and experience that provided the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants who are using education to qualify MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Applicant who possesses a Master's or Ph.D degree in a Social or Behavioral Science from a college/university accredited by the United States Department of Education is preferred. Applicants must upload a copy of their transcript at the time they apply to verify education. Note: The above quality ranking factor is preferred. Therefore, applicants who possess the quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidates can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess the quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Social Science Research Analyst must interact with persons in various agencies and organizations including, the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; Executive Staff, Central Office employees, institution managers, staff, and inmates. He/she responds to requests for information with a clear and detailed explanation of a complex research project or data presentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted in depth/technical meetings with subordinates; and/or I have interviewed inmates/clients during the execution of a research study or data request; and/or I have responded to questions regarding a current study or request. I have conducted informal meetings with subordinates; and/or I have suggested possible approaches to colleagues regarding the design of a research study; and/or I have brainstormed possible solutions with colleagues’ responses to questions regarding a study. I have provided feedback in meetings which required group discussions about research studies or data queries; and/or I have conversed with a co-worker regarding the design of a research study or data request response; and/or I have provided technical assistance regarding a question or request. None of the above. 5 The Social Science Research Analyst must be able to create reports, memoranda, and letters to convey results or findings in a clear and concise manner. He/she interprets and compiles research/data into reports, translating the material in such a way that it can be understood by end users. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memorandum to staff explaining/clarifying a research procedure or a data query; and/or I have summarized a research proposal or data request; and/or I have provided documentation for computer systems used by analysts; and/or I have composed a response to an institution’s ad hoc request. I have assisted with writing a summarized research proposal or data inquiry; and/or I have provided documentation for computer systems used by analysts; and/or I have summarized complicated legislation or policy for management. I have written a memo for all department heads explaining newly established procedures; and/or I have updated information for interagency operations; and/or I have authored short summaries/articles regarding social science studies for the agency-specific purposes. None of the above. 6 The Social Science Research Analyst is responsible for managing and coordinating various data/research projects, effectively using time and personnel. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided documentation for program reviews or internal audits; and/or I have provided initial drafts for data request responses; and/or I have utilized a database to track and prioritize work/caseload. I have met externally imposed deadlines regarding a small-scale project; and/or I have supervised staff and assisted in their development; and/or I have conducted in-depth performance appraisals which gave detailed feedback on future goals. I have processed certificates of eligibles to appoint new staff; and/or I have tracked organizational expenditures; and/or I have created individual development plans. None of the above. 7 The Social Science Research Analyst must design and participate in a variety of research studies and/or data collection and matching projects which involve extensive knowledge of social science methods and the ability to apply them in a manner which fits into the context of generally accepted social science standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the design of multiple research studies and/or data collection from multiple sources; and/or I have assisted in developing code to respond to a large data request; and/or I have provided feedback to others while conducting research in an applied setting. I have conducted a literature synthesis for a larger research report; and/or I have worked with senior team members to carry out an experimental or quasi-experimental research design; and/or I have compiled large data collection results under the direction of senior research team members. I have shadowed colleagues in the design of multiple research studies and projects; and/or I have provided ideas for developing research methodology for a research project; and/or I have supported others in conducting research in an applied setting. None of the above. 8 The Social Science Research Analyst must understand and be capable of using standard statistical software packages (Statistical Analysis System (SAS), Stata, R, or comparable packages). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have devised a data collection strategy; and/or I have designed a survey or an interview format; and/or I have formulated a research problem and generated a testable hypothesis. I have merged existing databases using software; and/or I have compiled tables for reports; and/or I have performed a Statistical Analysis System (SAS) frequency run. I have performed a t-test to compare two means; and/or I have conducted an analysis of variance to compare three or more means; and/or I have produced cross-tabulation results of categorical data. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR Combination of education and experience that provided the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. 2 In addition to the basic requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants who are using education to qualify MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Applicant who possesses a Master's or Ph.D degree in a Social or Behavioral Science from a college/university accredited by the United States Department of Education is preferred. Applicants must upload a copy of their transcript at the time they apply to verify education. Note: The above quality ranking factor is preferred. Therefore, applicants who possess the quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidates can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess the quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Social Science Research Analyst must interact with persons in various agencies and organizations including, the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; Executive Staff, Central Office employees, institution managers, staff, and inmates. He/she responds to requests for information with a clear and detailed explanation of a complex research project or data presentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted informal meetings with subordinates; and/or I have suggested possible approaches to colleagues regarding the design of a research study or a response to a data request; and/or I have brainstormed possible solutions with colleagues on responses to questions regarding a study or request. I have conducted in depth/technical meetings with subordinates; and/or I have interviewed inmates/clients during the execution of a research study or data request; and/or I have responded to questions regarding a current study or request. I have, at a scheduled meeting, provided in-service training to Executive Staff; briefed high level management officials on requests from congressional offices; and/or I have conferred with a management official regarding findings in a study or data requests and/or responses. None of the above. 5 The Social Science Research Analyst must be able to create reports, memoranda, and letters to convey results or findings in a clear and concise manner. He/she interprets and compiles research/data into reports, translating the material in such a way that it can be understood by end users. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a memo for all department heads explaining newly established procedures; and/or I have updated information for interagency operations; and/or I have authored short summaries/articles regarding social science studies for the agency-specific purposes. I have developed informative material regarding policies and/or goal activities; and/or I have written a report targeted for a congressional or media related audience; and/or I have drafted a training manual. I have written memorandum to staff explaining/clarifying a research procedure or a data query; and/or I have summarized a research proposal or data request; and/or I have provided documentation for computer systems used by analysts; and/or I have composed a response to an institution’s ad hoc request. None of the above. 6 The Social Science Research Analyst is responsible for managing and coordinating various data/research projects, effectively using time and personnel. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed certificates of eligibles to appoint new staff; and/or I have tracked organizational expenditures; and/or I have created individual development plans. I have assisted in the development of guidelines for concurrently running research studies or delivering data; and/or I have assessed available resources and made a recommendation for assignments; and/or I have actively participated in a program evaluation or managed complex data responses. I have met externally imposed deadlines regarding a small-scale project; and/or I have supervised staff and assisted in their development; and/or I have conducted in-depth performance appraisals which gave detailed feedback on future goals. None of the above. 7 The Social Science Research Analyst must design and participate in a variety of research studies and/or data collection and matching projects which involve extensive knowledge of social science methods and the ability to apply them in a manner which fits into the context of generally accepted social science standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the design of multiple research studies and/or data collection from multiple sources; and/or I have assisted in developing code to respond to a large data request; and/or I have provided feedback to others while conducting research in an applied setting. I have conducted a literature synthesis for a larger research report; and/or I have worked with senior team members to carry out an experimental or quasi-experimental research design; and/or I have compiled large data collection results under the direction of senior research team members. I have conducted a census study; and/or I have obtained data for a project through telephone interview or an archive file search; and/or I have helped design a written survey. None of the above. 8 The Social Science Research Analyst must understand and be capable of using standard statistical software packages (Statistical Analysis System (SAS), Stata, R, or comparable packages). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed a t-test to compare two means; and/or I have conducted an analysis of variance to compare three or more means; and/or I have produced cross-tabulation results of categorical data. I have employed common multivariate techniques such as multiple regression and logistic regression; and/or I have conducted a longitudinal study with multivariate parameters; and/or I have performed a cluster analysis. I have merged existing databases using software; and/or I have compiled tables for reports; and/or I have performed a Statistical Analysis System (SAS) frequency run. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).