Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform copyright registration related work.** Ability to perform a range of tasks related copyright registration including: 1) assessing whether requirements for registration have been met; 2) working with applicants to resolve registration issues related to the application and or deposit; 3) conducting research to solve registration problem(s); 4) creating public records; 5) forwarding cases to the next appropriate area if successful; and 6) selecting works for the Library of Congress collections. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed the full range of tasks related to the registration of claims in ALL of the areas listed above and trained others in the performance of these tasks. Routinely performed the full range of tasks related to the registration of claims in FIVE (5) of the areas listed above. Routinely performed a range of tasks related to the registration of claims in THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the areas listed above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to manage special project planning.** Managed special projects including: 1) planning and identifying the issue or problem requiring resolution; 2) identifying, collecting and analyzing data from various sources; 3) formulating findings, conclusions and recommendations; and 4) presenting results. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and /or managed numerous special projects, and in doing so performed ALL OF THE ABOVE tasks listed. Independently planned and /or managed numerous special projects and in doing so performed THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. As part of a team, planned and /or managed numerous special projects, and in doing so performed TWO (2) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing and orally. Communicated with a wide variety of copyright claimants in order to complete the copyright registration process and to solve problems encountered. In doing so, 1) exercised good public relations practices in soliciting and giving information, 2) explained procedures and other information in a clear and concise manner and developed and maintained relationships with a variety of stakeholders, 3) called on to deal with difficult patrons or callers, 4) demonstrated an understanding of the demands and attitudes of the copyright clientele, 5) communicated in written format and by phone, and 6) wrote memos, reports and other correspondences. Answer to this question is required Independently communicated with a wide range of copyright claimants to facilitate registrations and resolve issues, meeting All of the Above Independently communicated with a wide range of copyright claimants to facilitate registrations and resolve issues, meeting FIVE (5) of the Above With assistance, communicated with a wide range of copyright claimants to facilitate registrations and resolve issues, meeting FOUR (4) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to solve problems and make decisions. Identified, considered, and resolved a variety of complex questions issues, problems, and concepts related to copyright registration processes. This includes the ability to gather information, analyze issues, anticipate, define, diagnose, and resolve problems by engaging in the evaluation and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion. Answer to this question is required Analyzed and found successful solutions to complex problems as an auditor-in-charge or lead auditor. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations relating to business issues that had not been previously addressed by a Federal agency or other organization. Analyzed and resolved moderately complex problems related to the copyright registration process as a non-supervisory auditor. For example, develop detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations or program guidance. Analyzed and resolved routine problems related to the copyright registration process as a team member. For example, had substantial input in the analytical approach used to determine compliance with laws and regulations. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).