Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. &nbsp;A. Education &nbsp; Degree Professional Engineering. &nbsp; To view qualifying educational requirements and/or combination of education and specialized experience click on the following link https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/0800/files/all-professional-engineering-positions-0800.pdf &nbsp; If you are qualifying based on positive education, please provide a copy of your college transcript. &nbsp;The transcript may be unofficial or photocopy at time of application, but MUST provide the original if selected. &nbsp;Candidates who do not submit a transcript will be deemed as ineligible. &nbsp; Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order to receive credit towards qualifications. &nbsp;Therefore, applicants must report only attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. &nbsp;Applicants can verify accreditation at the following website: http://www.ed.gov/admins/finaid/accred/index.html &nbsp; All education claimed by applicants will be verified by the appointing agency accordingly. &nbsp;If selected, an official transcript will be required prior to appointment. &nbsp; AND &nbsp; B. Specialized Experience &nbsp; GS-15 &nbsp; Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 in the Federal service. &nbsp;For this position, examples of specialized experience includes the following: &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;1. Experience demonstrating expertise in engineering matters related to broadcast and wireless services.&nbsp; &nbsp;2. Experience advising on engineering matters which impact AM broadcasting, International High Frequency Broadcasting and/or ITU Radio Regulations. &nbsp;3. Experience developing proposals, assessing interference and formulating solutions between US and foreign licensees. &nbsp;4. Experience drafting technical coordination agreements for discussion at international meetings. &nbsp;5. Experience negotiating with foreign governments on the development of solutions to highly complex engineering and interference problems.&nbsp; 1 I meet the educational and the specialized experience requirements as listed above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 I am a current employee at the FCC. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).