Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in developing collaborations or partnerships with museums, cultural institutions, educational organizations and communities? Answer to this question is required I have developed collaborations and partnerships that yielded positive relationships and resources. I have developed collaborations and partnerships. I have assisted others in developing collaborations or partnerships. I do not have any experience in developing collaborations or partnerships. 3 Which of the following describes your experience managing a network of national and international programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed a national network of programs. I have managed an international network of programs. I have managed complex, competing priorities to ensure program success. I have prepared reports on large grants and financial accounts. I have managed, tracked and reported on the activities of a complex organization. I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships? Answer to this question is required I have not been involved in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships. I have assisted in negotiating, collaborating and creating partnerships. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in short-term partnerships. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in long and sustainable partnerships. My negotiations and collaborations have resulted in long, sustainable partnerships and yielded funding for programs. 5 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience developing outreach programs that include national collaborations, digital programming, and convenings? Answer to this question is required I have developed outreach programs that included national collaborations, digital programming, and convenings that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have developed outreach programs that included national collaborations and convenings that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have assisted in the development of outreach programs to reach diverse audiences and digital education program and activities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following describes your experience in producing public programs and/or educational events that? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Significantly enhanced the visitor experience. Built internal and external partnerships. Expanded my organization’s reach and impact. Had an impact on the larger cultural community as an example of best practice. Had an impact on the public’s understanding of the American experience. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience providing program or project management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the development of long- and short-range plans in anticipation of changes in program needs. I have reviewed and analyzed program objectives. I have coordinated and facilitated the activities of professional and support staff. I have formulated objectives, priorities, milestones and reviewed project accomplishments. I have planned and directed all phases of a complex information project. I have used experience in proposal preparation, development, and defense of program plan. I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statement(s) best describes your experience in managing projects? Answer to this question is required I have participated in a team managing multi-year museum projects through development, implementation, and completion. I have successfully led teams in managing long-term (multi-year) projects involving collections, exhibitions, or museum programming. I have independently managed medium to large projects involving collections, exhibitions, or museum programming. I have no experience with project management. 9 Which of the following describes your experience related to marketing and public relations planning? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the development and implementation of organization-wide Public Relations strategy. I have worked alongside contractors to design and implement integrated marketing campaigns. I have conceptualized, designed, and implemented promotional campaigns. I have tracked and assessed the effectiveness of promotion. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.