Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which best describes your experience working with stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have limited experience providing customer service. I have coordinated with managers or staff to resolve service issues. I have communicated directly with senior officials (executives, Members of Congress, etc.) to resolve concerns. I have represented my organization with executives and oversight bodies to negotiate or resolve complex issues. 3 To what extent do you have experience networking, conducting outreach, and building partnerships with external learning entities or organizations ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which best describes your experience working with stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have limited experience providing customer service. I have coordinated with managers or staff to resolve service issues. I have communicated directly with senior officials (executives, Members of Congress, etc.) to resolve concerns. I have represented my organization with executives and oversight bodies to negotiate or resolve complex issues. 3 To what extent do you have experience networking, conducting outreach, and building partnerships with external learning entities or organizations ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above. 2 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Composing complex administrative documents or correspondence such as Agency cooperative or recognition programs. Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Composing daily activity reports regarding complex issues. None of the above 3 Have you worked in an environment subject to public, legislative, regulatory, or external oversight? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 5 Do you have experience working with Congress and/or Congressional Staff and Committees to promote organizational goals and further legislative and communication initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the responses pertaining to your problem-solving experience. Answer to this question is required Present, discuss and/or defend my findings with others prior to reaching a conclusion. Develop, prioritize, and recommend alternate solutions or courses of actions. Initiate and communicate pros and cons or solutions or courses of action. Brief analytical information to senior management officials. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience organizing working groups, special study groups or research teams to discuss policy issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Choose&nbsp;the statement that best describes your highest level of experience setting priorities and acquiring, organizing, and leveraging available resources to ensure timely delivery of high quality services and products for an organization. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 9 Select the statement that reflects your highest level of experience researching and evaluating activities to ensure sound and efficient program management? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Select the choice that best describes your experience analyzing proposed legislation, policy and regulations to determine their projected impact on the cost and efficiency of an organization's operations and the prevention and detection of fraud, waste and abuse. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.