Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the answer that best describes your qualifying education and/or experience for the GS-11 level. Answer to this question is required One (1) or more years of professional legal experience acquired after being admitted to the Bar. You must have one year of specialized experience commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position at a level close to the work of this job that has given you the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform. Typically we would find this experience in work within this field or a field that is closely related. This experience must be equivalent to that of the duties of a GS-9 Attorney in Federal service. Completion of the second professional law degree (LL.M.) which requires one full year of graduate study. Completion of the first professional law degree (J.D.) plus superior law student work or activities as demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Academic standing in the upper third of the law school graduating class; or 2. Work or achievement of significance on his/her law school’s official law review; or 3. Special high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, such as election to the Order of the Coif; or 4. Winning of a moot court competition or membership on the moot court team which represents the law school or in competition with other law schools; or 5. Full-time or continuous participation, for one year or two semesters of law school, in a legal aid program (as opposed to one-time, intermittent, or casual participation); or 6. Significant summer law office clerk experience after beginning law school; or 7. Other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement. I do not meet the education and/or experience described above. Grade: 12 1 Select the answer that best describes your qualifying experience for the GS-12 level. Answer to this question is required Two (2) years of professional legal experience. You must have one year of specialized experience at a level close to the work of this job that has given you the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform. Typically, we would find this experience in work within this field, such as complex legal work including extensive research, analysis, evaluation and/or litigation in a legal specialization relevant to the duties and responsibilities of the position. This experience must be equivalent to the duties of a GS-11 attorney in the Federal service. One (1) year of professional legal experience at the level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to that of an attorney at the grade immediately below the one being filled, PLUS a second professional law degree (LL.M.) which requires one full year of graduate study One (1) year of professional legal experience at the level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to that of an attorney at the GS-11 grade level, PLUS record showing superior law schoolwork, or activities as demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Academic standing in the upper third of the law school graduating class. 2. Work or achievement of significance on his/her law school’s official law review. 3. Special high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, such as election to the Order of the Coif. 4. Winning of a moot court competition or membership on the moot court team that represents the law school in competition with other law schools. 5.Full-time or continuous participation, for one year or two semesters of law school, in a legal aid program (as opposed to one-time, intermittent, or casual participation). 6. Significant summer law office clerk experience after beginning law school. 7. Other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement. I do not meet the experience described above. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you a current member in good standing of the Bar of a State, Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? (note: proof of bar membership - i.e., providing a copy of a bar membership card - is not required at the time of application, but will be required upon receiving a tentative job offer). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have a Bar membership and one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal government. I have a Bar membership and four (4) years of attorney experience. I do not meet this requirement. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).