Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. 3 Ability to supervise, develop and lead a workforce in an overseas environment.** Supervised, developed, and led a workforce in an overseas environment.&nbsp; In doing so, performed these functions: 1) established performance standards, guidelines, and expectations; 2) directed daily operations, assigned work, and evaluated performance and outcomes; 3) provided coaching, mentoring, and informal/formal feedback; 4) resolved employee concerns, complaints, and grievances promptly; 5) advised and counseled staff on work-related and administrative matters; 6) reviewed and approved/denied leave and other personnel actions; 7) oversaw processes to ensure efficiency, compliance, and effectiveness; and 8) communicated organizational goals, priorities, and expectations to align with mission objectives. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the federal budget process and financial management practices and procedures.** Performed federal budget and financial management work in support of the phases involved in budget administration. Answer to this question is required Served as an expert in performing a full range of administrative, budgetary and accounting activities connected with the review, justification, presentation and execution of the budget for an agency or major component thereof. Developed financial reports and perform cost-benefit analyses of proposed budgetary and program actions and advised senior management on the most advantageous courses of action. Established internal controls to ensure compliance with organizational policies. Performed complex and varied duties for various budget analysis assignments to support assigned programs managing financial resources, including formulating, justifying, and monitoring the execution of budget plans to finance the implementation of substantive programs and services. Provided recommendations for budget management to senior management. Performed budget analysis supporting the formulation, justification, presentation, and execution stages of the budget process. Provided recommendations for budget management to senior management. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing.** Demonstrated the ability to produce written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory or lead responsibilities performed such as: 1) performance evaluations and plans; 2) counseling/disciplinary memos; 3) information for public dissemination in print and/or electronic form; 4) official correspondence; 5) policies and procedures; 6) annual and statistical reports; 7) budgets; and 8) project plans. Answer to this question is required Wrote AT LEAST SIX (6) of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. Wrote FIVE (5) of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. Wrote FOUR (4) of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration.&nbsp; Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to analyze, plan, develop and execute library programs and projects. Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects. Provided appropriate strategies to solve program and/or organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Served in a leadership capacity, to plan, develop, evaluate, and implement overall library and information projects and services supporting strategic objectives and an organization's operations and mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Assisted in the planning, development, evaluation and implementation of library and information projects and services to support an organization’s mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement and assisted in ensuring goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Assisted in the development and implementation of library and information projects and services to support an organization’s mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives, analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions, and assisted in ensuring goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies. Utilized knowledge of library trends, library and information science, integrated library systems, computer technology and software applications such as: 1) acquisitions and cataloging modules, 2) library applications, websites, and databases, 3) Cataloger's Desktop, 4) Microsoft Office, and other library technologies to execute library functions and provide customer service. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute significant library operations and programs (e.g., assisted in the implementation of an upgrade or new module to an integrated library system.) Applied extensive knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute existing library operations and programs (e.g., improved upon existing library systems through the creation or application of new techniques or tools, such as the development of new macros to improve upon library functions or services.) Applied knowledge of integrated library systems and library technologies in existing library operations and programs (e.g., assisted others with troubleshooting technological problems). None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).