Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Please select any duties you have held relating to personnel supervision. Answer to this question is required Recruiting new employees Interviewing and/or selecting new employees Training employees Supervising and/or managing employees Evaluating the performance of employees Making promotion decisions about employees I have not had any personnel supervision experience 3 Which of the following describes your experience in supervising one or more employees? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience supervising multiple employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have some experience supervising employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have experience supervising employees including scheduling work assignments and monitoring employee progress. I have been trained in supervision but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 4 Have you supervised exhibit production staff in a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following statements best characterizes your teamwork or collaboration experience? Answer to this question is required I have worked independently and do not have substantial teamwork experience or collaboration experience. I have worked in collaboration with a variety of individuals and groups. I have led a team in which I was responsible for coordinating the work of the team, ensuring work was completed on time, negotiating consensus among team members, and communicating progress to managers and supervisors. I have collaborated with one or two other colleagues on a discrete project or assignment. I do not have teamwork or collaboration experience. 6 Which of the following &nbsp;best &nbsp;describes your experience in&nbsp; maintaining &nbsp;production schedules and coordinating with counterpart supervisors in Fabrication,&nbsp; Exhibits &nbsp;Technology, and the Exhibits Services Group to adjust project timelines and ensure project requirements are met? (Select all that&nbsp; apply .) Answer to this question is required Monitors and promptly addresses setbacks while collaborating with counterparts to achieve combined objectives. Conducts regular checkups in all areas to remain abreast of progress and maintains contact with counterparts to discuss projects and meeting milestones. Reviews project milestones and progress production data to ensure milestones and expectations are met and collaborates with stakeholders to identify and implement necessary adjustments. Develops coordinated work plans that accurately reflect interdependent workflows I do not possess the experience described above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience performing project management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with a team to develop project timelines, schedules and tracking. I have assigned tasks and deadlines to a project team. I have tracked resources and supplies. I have alerted management to issues and suggested adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. I have acted as a liaison with other departments and teams on a project. I have been responsible for coordinating logistics on a project. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your project leadership skill in a graphics operation or graphics production company? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training leading projects in a graphics environment. I have worked as a member of a team in completing graphics projects. I have served as point of contact for graphics projects on the job under close supervision. I have served as project leader and developed budgets, work schedules, and scopes of work as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have supervised staff who were responsible for leading graphics projects and/or I have trained others to accomplish this task and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing project tracking documentation and status updates for an exhibition fabrication department and other stakeholders ? (Select only one response) Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing written and software generated reports and documentation of decisions, schedules, budgets, meetings and discussions and briefing to supervisor or manager and other stakeholders. I have experience with project managements systems, milestones, tracking resources and scheduling that includes producing weekly reports for staff and contractor assignments. I do not possess the experience described above. 10 Which of the following preparation and fabrication tasks have you performed to produce graphics for an exhibit? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Typesetting Sizing images and/or text Color matching Color correction Use RIP software to output print-ready files to large-format printers Preparing various types of substrates to receive graphics such as Sintra, mat board, acrylics, foam core, glass, gator board, etc Review and pre-flight graphic files using graphic design software Use a wide-format roll laminator to laminate/mount graphics to various types of substrates Scanning original source material for graphic production Manipulating digital graphic images and content using Adobe Creative Suite None of the above 11 Which best describes your graphics production skills? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with wide format roll media and flat-bed printing using RIP software such as Onyx for file set-up, color matching and profiling, as well as accomplishing a wide variety of graphics production techniques such as laminating and mounting, installation, and matting and framing. I have experience working with wide format roll media and flat-bed printing using RIP software (such as Onyx) for file set-up, as well as accomplishing a wide variety of graphics production techniques such as laminating and mounting, installation, and matting and framing. I have experience with wide format printing using RIP software (such as Onyx) and graphics production techniques. None of the above. 12 Which of the following statement best reflects your experience with file prep and graphics production of original designs and layouts of large scale graphics? Answer to this question is required I have done file preparation and production of original designs and layouts of large scale graphics for museums and/or cultural institutions. I have done file preparation and production of original designs and layouts of large scale graphics for exhibitions. I have assisted with file preparation and production of original designs and layouts of large scale graphics. None of the above. 13 Which of the following graphic production skills and experience do you have? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in graphic production for museum exhibitions as it pertains to conservation requirements, specifically in use of graphic materials and substrates. I have extensive experience in a wide array of graphic production techniques such as direct-to-surface printing, vinyl and aqueous inks, and digital print media. I have some experience in graphics software such as the Adobe Suite. I have experience in digital printing, laminating and mounting. I have some experience in inks and their properties. I do not have any experience in graphics production. 14 Which of the following&nbsp; best describes&nbsp; your experience installing graphics in &nbsp; museums or&nbsp; cultural institutions using a variety of installation procedures, materials, tools, and equipment? (Select all that&nbsp; apply .) Answer to this question is required I have experience installing CAD cut self-adhesive vinyl lettering or graphics. I have experience installing large format murals or banners. I have experience installing graphics using mounting adhesives. I have experience installing carpenter’s level and square or a laser level. I have experience installing graphics using ladders, scaffolding or mechanical lifts. I do not have experience installing graphics in museums or cultural institutions. 15 Which of the following graphics related tasks have you performed while preparing graphics for an exhibit? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used a variety of adhesives and tapes to mount graphics. I have worked at heights up to 12 feet using a lift, ladder, or scaffold I have created files for vinyl text/objects with vinyl plotter software I have used weeding for vinyl transfer and burnishing onto a surface I have assigning registration marks on a computer for cutting guides for prints I have applied adhesives to mounting panels I have applied final prints to adhesive covered panels I have manipulated mural prints to final size I have matched seams for large prints/or mural installation I have attached mural prints to exhibition walls manually. I have prepared computer files to cut with a CNC router I have assembled metal frames using hardware I have used an architectural scale to measure sizes on design specification drawings I have hand painted panel edges None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.