Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 I am proficient in my use of the following: Answer to this question is required Word Processing applications Spreadsheet applications Database applications Presentation applications Email management and calendar applications Accounting applications Task tracking applications Software Asset Management applications Inventory Management applications Other None of the above 2 Select the response which BEST describes your experience providing advice in the collection and preservation of digital evidence in support of criminal investigations? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I performed this task occasionally. I performed this task with the guidance of a senior employee or supervisor. I performed this task independently and without the guidance of a senior employee or supervisor. I performed this task independently and I am often consulted by others to assist them. 3 Select the certification(s) you currently possess: Answer to this question is required CompTIA A+ International Association for Property and Evidence (IAPE) Certified Property and Evidence Specialist (CPES) Defense Cyber Investigations Training Academy (DCITA), Digital Media Collector (DMC) None of the above 4 Select the type(s) of forensic imaging or extraction devices with which you have worked: Answer to this question is required Image MASSter Solo-3 Logicube Dossier Logicube Forensic Falcon Tableau TD1 Tableau TD2 Cellebrite UFED Touch None of the above 5 Select the topics / subjects in which you have successfully completed formal training or instruction: Answer to this question is required Digital Evidence Collection Digital Forensic Imaging Evidence Database Management Computer Hardware Computer Software Evidence Custodian None of the above 6 Please select the statement(s) that describe your experience in the area of digital forensics: Answer to this question is required I have collected and processed digital evidence during the execution of a search warrant. I have performed digital forensic examinations of evidence obtained by search warrant. Findings from a digital forensic examination I performed have been used to support a criminal prosecution. I have reviewed digital media to filter privileged information as part of a taint team. I have created forensic images of digital evidence while employed in a law enforcement digital forensic lab. None of the above. 7 Which statement BEST describes your ability to communicate orally and convey information effectively to others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience. I have little experience conducting meetings and presenting materials to audiences. I have experience conducting meetings and presenting materials to various audiences. I have experience conducting briefings and presenting at conferences or other professional academic environments. I have routinely conducted briefings and presented at conferences or other professional academic environments. 8 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience working with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have partnered with one other person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers who each have been designated a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a group (or groups) on many occasions with the objective to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, skills, information, support resources, and also sharing responsibility and recognition for the end product or outcomes. In supervisory or leadership capacity, created atmosphere for teamwork cooperation productivity which had positive impact. None of the above 9 Select the interpersonal communication activities you have performed: Answer to this question is required Coordinated findings with other experts. Coordinated with various federal law enforcement agencies. Coordinated work with appropriate U.S. Government or foreign government officials and agencies. Established and maintained good rapport with personnel who provide direct support to a program area of responsibility. Established effective system to monitor and track all out going communication to achieve timely response. Organized or participated in various internal and external conferences and/or seminars. None of the above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 10 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 12 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 13 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 14 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.