Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 5 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 6 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with independently applying rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have independently applied rules and regulations on a daily basis. I have applied rules and regulations with limited supervision I have applied rules and regulations with considerable supervision I have education or training in regulatory material, but I have not applied regulatory material in the workplace. I have no education or experience related to rules and regulations 7 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job: Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Worked in a customer service environment Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. Prepared written reports on program/project status. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.