Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Do you have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to next lower Grade in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following describes your experience performing Strategic Planning tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have implemented a strategic plan developed by others. I have developed and implemented a strategic plan initiated by others. I have proposed, developed and implemented a strategic plan with others in my field. I have proposed, developed and implemented a strategic plan with others outside of my field. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to align departmental goals with the organization’s strategic plan. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing resources. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing customer needs. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing technology. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to organizational change. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to seek new customer. I have proposed and develop a strategic plan in order to retain existing customers. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to develop new products. I have collaborated closely with other departments in determining new projects and directions. I have educated/encouraged other departments to try new projects and directions. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving problems, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services? Answer to this question is required I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had education or training in assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving programs, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Do you have experience analyzing and formulating program requirements related to government contract administration, federal procurement, training, resource management, and property accountability, making recommendations, and/or initiating a course of actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you willing to be on call 24 hours-a-day, 7 days-a-week? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following areas describes your experience in facilities maintenance operation?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Utilities systems. Energy management. Environmental management. Safety and security. Structural. None of above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of management support staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in the administrative unit creating work plan and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating work of subordinates including development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience providing counseling to employees on administrative matters including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counselings. I have experience interviewing candidates for vacancies. None of the above 9 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led large work team or group on managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have led a work team dealing with issues of similar interest. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. I have worked on a team or project with others under some constraint such a short deadline. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience developing, administering, and evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 13 Which of the following describes your experience advising management?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee moral, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and to reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations I have served as the organization objective arms to help identify and resolve administrative and management problems. I have provided advice on potential congressional reactions to proposed budgets and determine positive course of action in response to congressional action. None of the above. 14 Do you have experience gathering and analyzing information for administrative and financial/budget processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating in writing to varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training communicating in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in perform I have had education or training communicating in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: 15 1 Do you have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to next lower Grade in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating current operations and researching/implementing best practices related to facilities management? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of building, grounds, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with applying analytical and evaluating methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following describes your experience performing Strategic Planning tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have implemented a strategic plan developed by others. I have developed and implemented a strategic plan initiated by others. I have proposed, developed and implemented a strategic plan with others in my field. I have proposed, developed and implemented a strategic plan with others outside of my field. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to align departmental goals with the organization’s strategic plan. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing resources. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing customer needs. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing technology. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to organizational change. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to seek new customer. I have proposed and develop a strategic plan in order to retain existing customers. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in order to develop new products. I have collaborated closely with other departments in determining new projects and directions. I have educated/encouraged other departments to try new projects and directions. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving problems, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services? Answer to this question is required I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems, satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had education or training in assessing needs, providing assistance, resolving programs, satisfying expectations, and providing quality products and services. I have assessed needs, provided assistance, resolved problems satisfied expectations, and provided quality products and services as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Do you have experience analyzing and formulating program requirements related to government contract administration, federal procurement, training, resource management, and property accountability, making recommendations, and/or initiating a course of actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with developing policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in developing policies guidelines and procedures for program administration, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed polices, guidelines and procedures for program administration as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in developing policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration. I have developed policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration on the job under close supervisor by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have developed policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Are you willing to be on call 24 hours-a-day, 7 days-a-week? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following areas describes your experience in facilities maintenance operation?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Utilities systems. Energy management. Environmental management. Safety and security. Structural. None of above. 11 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of management support staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in the administrative unit creating work plan and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating work of subordinates including development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience providing counseling to employees on administrative matters including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counselings. I have experience interviewing candidates for vacancies. None of the above 12 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully (in projects) led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led large work team or group on managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have led a work team dealing with issues of similar interest. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. I have worked on a team or project with others under some constraint such a short deadline. None of the above. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in developing policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in developing policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration. I have developed policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have developed policies, guidelines and procedures for program administration as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development? Answer to this question is required I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in developing or using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience developing, administering, and evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in monitoring the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have monitored the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 19 Which of the following describes your experience advising management?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee moral, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and to reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations I have served as the organization objective arms to help identify and resolve administrative and management problems. I have provided advice on potential congressional reactions to proposed budgets and determine positive course of action in response to congressional action. None of the above. 20 Do you have experience gathering and analyzing information for administrative and financial/budget processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating in writing to varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training communicating in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in perform I have had education or training communicating in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.