Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your ability to identify and analyze foreign policy issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 2 Which of the following, best describes your experience with U.S. assistance efforts in the field of global health security? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, training or education related to global health security. I have education or training, but no professional experience related to global health security. I have performed tasks related to global health security under close supervision from a supervisor or more senior colleague. I have routinely and independently performed tasks related to the provision of global health security assistance, usually without review from a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled at performing tasks related to global health security and U.S. assistance efforts in this field. I have trained or overseen others or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 3 Which of the following BEST describes your experience designing health security capacity building projects in foreign countries? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, training or education related to designing health security capacity building projects in foreign countries. I have education, training or experience related to designing capacity building projects in foreign countries, but no experience on projects related to health security. I have education, training or experience designing health security capacity building projects in foreign countries, with supervision from a senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed tasks related to designing health security capacity building projects in foreign countries, usually without review from a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled at designing health security capacity building projects in foreign countries, having trained or overseen others or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your experience using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques to analyze and evaluate grant proposals and awards? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Choose the answer which best describes your experience with global health security policy. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with global health security policy. I have had training or education but no direct experience with global health security policy. I have limited work experience with global health security policy and apply my experience with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have substantial work experience with global health security policy. I am considered an expert in the field and consulted by others for advice. 6 Which of the following BEST represents your level of experience in supply chain management? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in supply chain management. I have education or training in supply chain management, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed supply chain management functions on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed supply chain management functions as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing supply chain management functions on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 8 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have had formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for the program. I have no formal education / training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 9 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your experience working with international organizations on global health security issues (e.g., World Health Organization, World Organization for Animal Health, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization)? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, training or education related to working with international organizations on global health security issues. I have education or training, but no professional experience related to working with international organizations on global health security issues. I have performed tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, under the close supervision from a supervisor or more senior colleague. I have routinely and independently performed tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, usually without review from a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled at performing tasks related to working with international organizations on global health security issues, having trained or overseen others or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 11 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience dealing with foreign regulations and practices to administer a foreign grants program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or other have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have no education or experience in qualitative or quantitative analytical methods. I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or team member to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 13 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 14 Experience working with foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with governments and non-governmental organizations. I have managed projects requiring coordination with the U.S. government and non-governmental organizations. I have worked on U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental committees and work groups. I have lead and coordinated programs with U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental organizations. None of the above 15 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience providing technical advice and guidance to managers, co-workers, headquarters staff and decision-makers on undefined issues and elements for programs critical to the agency`s mission? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.