Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Financial Specialist interacts with management officials and staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as, giving clear and convincing presentations on financial related issues. In addition, he/she interacts with personnel of other government agencies and the general public in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided status of Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) or comparable automated financial system to others when the system experiences difficult problems; and/or I have provided information to Program Managers about availability or status of obligated funds; and/or I have provided training and financial technical assistance to staff and others; and/or I have worked with individual/local Cost Center Managers (Regional Administrators and Program Managers) on local obligation/payment issues; and/or I have provided information during section level meetings related to unique/complex budget or accounting issues. I have advised institution Executive Staff and department heads on accounting related issues; and/or I have facilitated special workgroup/project; and/or I have given presentations at local institution budget and/or accounting strategic meetings; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to financial management staff. I have responded to inmate questions and complaints; and/or I have contacted staff concerning travel or salary advances; and/or I have led discussion in department/staff meetings; and/or I have led a special work group or project. None of the above. 3 The Financial Specialist assists with the preparation of financial reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the financial integrity for the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed obligation estimates and justifications which were utilized by management to request adjustment of obligated funding; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding technical report; and/or I have written local policies or institution supplements; and/or I have compiled statistical reports which included interpretations from upper management. I have developed standard memos to remove or reallocate obligations; and/or I have prepared informational memorandum on required budgeting and accounting procedures; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes for financial meetings; and/or I have developed lesson plans for Financial Management Training; and/or I have developed guidance memoranda addressing audit issues to resolve. I have drafted dunning letters to creditors; and/or I have corresponded with vendors concerning invoicing discrepancies; and/or I have composed correspondence to staff regarding internal accounting procedures. None of the above. 4 The Financial Specialist analyzes, draws conclusions, and/or make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. He/she plans, administers, and monitors expenditures to ensure cost effective support of programs and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine the validity of payment voucher and proper classification of the obligations; and/or I have ensured payments were made in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act; and/or I have reviewed government accounting reports for accuracy; and/or I have approved and certified complex payments and included disbursements against major contracts or interagency/reimbursable agreements; and/or I have recommended changes to financial systems, controls, and procedures based on budget requirements and the results of audits and reviews; and/or I have monitored statement of differences between the agency and the Department of Treasury; and/or I have developed a budget plan. I have completed income statements, cash flow, and owner's equity sheet; and/or I have reconciled accounts; and or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have balanced bank reports; and/or I have processed accounts payable according to regulations; and/or I have consolidated financial records; and/or I have utilized data processing software and hardware equipment needed to accomplish and maintain the financial reporting and fund control. I have determined relevant data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined and resolved minor buying discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending for program areas and initiated appropriate corrective action; and/or I have posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have monitored a budget plan. None of the above. 5 The Financial Specialist must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts in providing accounting policies and procedures guidance, financial guidance, implementing/modifying accounting systems, and resolving accounting issues for the section. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented budget information to the Warden, Associate Wardens, Cost Center Managers; and/or I have presented a financial review to Board of Directors or to corporate management; and/or I have met with other staff to coordinate new accounting activities; and/or I have conducted accounting or financial management training to agency personnel and others. I have provided guidance to staff on resolving travel related issues; and/or I have resolved disciplinary problems; and/or I have interacted with the department to restore deleted electronic programs because of system failure; and/or I have contacted the Treasury Department regarding disbursements and deposits. I have interacted with the department Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) staff when changing automated computer systems; and/or I have met with managers in other departments to develop long range budget plans; and/or I have resolved financial management issues affecting the agency with outside entities. I have briefed supervisor on accounting information such as account reconciliations, changes in reporting requirements, or budget information; and/or I have trained co-worker to use the bureau automated system; and/or I have coordinated efforts with others in completing office projects; and/or I have assisted others in implementing policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).