Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have at least one&nbsp;full year of professional nursing experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience&nbsp;requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Regional Nurse Consultant is responsible for the quality and appropriateness of comprehensive nursing care provided to patients. He/she monitors and evaluates nursing practice to promote consistency in performance and ensure safe patient care is provided. He/she will orient/mentor newly hired nursing staff and serves as a resource person to other nursing staff throughout the region. The Regional Nurse Consultant will provide on-site training or competency training in procedures such as, wound care, IV access, Basic Life Support, Advance Cardiac Life Support, Advance Trauma Life Support, and other training as identified by their Clinical Director. He/she works collaboratively with their Medical Asset Support Team, Regional Medical Director, institutional Clinical Director, consulting physician(s), and nurses in managing patients with complex medical conditions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed nursing treatment plans; and/or I have approved special needs accommodations; and/or I have supervised primary nursing and follow up care; and/or I have created and applied the standardized Clinical Practice Guidelines and/or the standardized Nursing Protocols to daily professional practice and activities; and/or I have provided in-house staff training on clinical issues and/or patient safety through the continuing nursing education program. I have performed appropriate follow up care; and/or I have assisted other staff with adherence to clinical guidelines/nursing protocols; and/or I have applied best-practice recommendations to improve nursing care; and/or I have reviewed and kept abreast of national performance measures. I have provided patient education sessions to inmate groups and updated staff on current clinical advances or research; and/or I have participated in the training and orientation of junior clinical staff; and/or I have conducted peer reviews or competency assessments of other nursing staff members; and/or I have demonstrated patient safety techniques and competent clinical skills in the application of clinical guidelines of patients with complex medical conditions. I have participated in selected Focus Reviews and other investigations and provided written summaries of the findings and provided guidance to prevent recurrence of possible sentinel clinical events (i.e., clinical competency evaluations and credentialing reviews); and/or I have provided patient education regarding disease processes and plan of care; and/or I have demonstrated the use of Clinical Practice Guidelines or standardized Nursing Protocols in the treatment plan of patients. None of the above. 7 The Regional Nurse Consultant oversees a program, policy or procedure or may assist in planning, directing, coordinating and evaluating policy. He/she exercises independent judgment and discretion on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided supervisors, peers and inmates with guidance regarding plan of care or other health topics; and/or I have identified medical concerns and referred patient to appropriate departments responsible for providing follow-up; and/or I have encouraged patients to comply with medications, management of their disease and obtaining follow-up care. I have served as subject matter expert to institution and other facilities/organizations and provided consultation; and/or I have supervised clinical staff in Bureau of Prisons, other agencies or community, or as team leader in a research program; and/or I have worked with leaders of the institution, region or community to develop networks, research teams or workgroups with broad impact. I have used team building and facilitation techniques to lead workgroups in nursing projects for the institution; and/or I have effectively communicated complex nursing topics to Executive Staff to assist in resolving issues; and/or I have contacted community resources and established relationships for nursing issues and program enhancements. None of the above. 8 The Regional Nurse Consultant prepares and presents technical and non-technical information regarding issues of clinical concern to a variety of staff, physicians, community representatives, management, and executive staff. Therefore, the Regional Nurse Consultant must be able to communicate effectively in a manner that is understood by the target audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have worked on community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental/corporate issues; and/or I have given informal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs. I have led a workgroup which included members of staff from other agencies; and/or I have conducted training for Bureau audience or for professional organizations; and/or I have given formal presentations to management of an agency/organization/industry; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding nursing practice. I have briefed department/office/unit staff on nursing issues; and/or I have provided training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s and provided recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have briefed other management staff on issues within and outside of discipline. None of the above. 9 The Regional Nurse Consultant provides written consultation to Central Office and regional staff, up to and including the Regional Director on complex nursing issues. He/she assists their respective regional office in the management of the administrative remedy process by researching issues at hand and assisting with the preparation of responses for the Regional Director&rsquo;s signature. Therefore, the Regional Nurse Consultant must be able to write effectively. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in writing responses or gathering data for the administrative remedy process; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments; and/or I have assisted in writing or presenting materials used in training courses. I have prepared draft articles for Division Update, etc.; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by division/department; and/or I have formulated responses for the administrative remedy process at the institution level; and/or I have developed materials used in training courses; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural guide explaining laws, regulations, etc., in laymen terms. None of the above. 10 The Regional Nurse Consultant must maintain an up-to-date and thorough knowledge of all Health Services Policies, Bureau of Prisons National Formulary, and policies affecting nursing services, Bureau of Prisons Clinical Practice Guidelines, and Central Office guidance. He/she also offers recommendations and conducts follow up evaluations on clinical issues identified by Program Review, Joint Commission, or other internal/external reviews. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in completing primary source verification of health care provider credentials using general knowledge of Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JCAHO) national policy requirements; and/or I have maintained documents required during reviews or surveys, such as credential files, biomedical equipment maintenance reports, Safety Data Sheet (SDS) records, fire drills, etc.; and/or I have maintained Continuing Medical Education (CME) training records for Health Services Unit (HSU) staff, auditing records to ensure mandatory requirements have been met; and/or I have conducted emergency drills, fire drills, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) modifications or safety activities. I have developed tracking systems to assure timely verifications of renewable credentials, such as licenses or certifications; and/or I have obtained National Practitioner Data Bank reports and notified supervisor of any discrepancies; and/or I have coordinated purchase of equipment or supplies specific to emergency preparedness or identified deficiencies from disaster drills; and/or I have participated in program reviews at other institutions. I have primary liaison for Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations Accreditation for facility; and/or I have initiated reviews and activities related to various accreditation programs; and/or I have maintained files and action/documentation to correct problems; and/or I have conducted periodic operational audits/reviews; and/or I have evaluated effectiveness of programs compared to published standards; and/or I have coordinated primary source verification requirements for clinical staff, contractors and volunteers; and/or I have provided direction and/or training on accreditation issues to staff; and/or I have provided staff assistance to other institutions (credentialing, administrative or quality improvement). None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).