Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have at least one year of full-time experience equivalent to the NF-13 level: 1. Conceiving, designing, and delivering digital products for public audiences;&nbsp; 2. Providing product leadership to achieve business goals; 3. Leading the vision, roadmap, identification of user needs for a digital product or platform; 4. Leading cross-functional teams to develop digital products or platforms;&nbsp; 5. Using iterative or agile methodologies to develop digital services, products, or platforms;&nbsp; 6. Directly supervising team of product managers; and 7. Collaborating with senior or executive stakeholders on digital products Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the years of experience leading the management of digital products or digital services through the product lifecycle, including product strategy, roadmap development, requirements prioritization, and delivery? Answer to this question is required 0 years 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 3 Have you collaborated with software engineers to define product requirements involving APIs, content management systems, search technologies, AI, cloud platforms, or enterprise web applications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience serving as the lead product manager or product owner for an Agile software development team responsible for delivering production software? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you used customer research, analytics, or usability testing to influence product decisions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you managed multiple digital products simultaneously while balancing competing priorities and limited resources? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you built consensus among executive leadership, engineering teams, designers, business stakeholders, and external vendors? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you overseen contractor performance, reviewed deliverables, or managed software development contracts?acquisitions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please select the years of experience supervising product managers, including setting priorities, developing staff, evaluating performance, and addressing performance issues. Answer to this question is required 0 years 1 year 2 years View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.