Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Two full years of graduate education or a master&rsquo;s degree. Graduate level education must be directly related to the work of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must satisfy at least one of the following conditions: Applicant maintains a current, active, and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP); OR Applicant maintains a current, active state Paramedic license in the state of the position being applied for.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes, I have a current, active, and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP) OR a current, active state Paramedic License in the state of the position being applied for. No, I do not possess the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST upload proof of current, active and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP) OR a current, active state Paramedic license at the time you apply. 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 The Paramedic must communicate and deal effectively with management, physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, peers, patients, and other individuals. He/she must be able to work and collaborate with various health care providers in order to provide the best patient care possible and communicate information during extreme emergency situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in an emergency drill as a co-provider; and/or I have assisted with providing basic medical overview classes to non-healthcare staff (i.e., Basic First Aid, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)); and/or I have provided basic instruction for self-care of minor injuries. I have established communication to obtain information from patients for treatment; and/or I have provided instructions and obtained patients cooperation; and/or I have explained treatment in language patient understands; and/or I have directed non-medical personnel in assisting to respond to medical emergencies to assist and manage the situations. I have obtained assistance to provide care for patients; and/or I have instructed less experienced staff on the job; and/or I have made presentations to other caregivers; and/or I have provided education to patients on signs and symptoms of basic and moderately complex medical conditions. None of the above. 4.2 The Paramedic, who are often first responders, must be able to use a variety of life-saving medical equipment appropriately. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed endotracheal intubation or other airways (i.e., intubations, bag valve mask (BVM)); and/or I have completed electrocardiogram application, Automated Electronic Defibrillator (AED) use, or manual cardioversion/defibrillators; and/or I have utilized suction devices; and/or I have applied air casts/splint or other immobilization equipment; and/or I have completed oxygen administration via various adjuncts; and/or I have started intravenous (IV) therapy; and/or I have routinely used diagnostic equipment such as pulse oximeter, glucose monitor and blood pressure equipment; and/or I have used or placed cricothyroidotomies, peripheral vascular access devices, central venous catheters, chest tubes, and tracheotomies. I have taken and recorded patient vital signs; and/or I have accurately determined blood pressure readings to be used by physician and para-professional staff in conjunction with other symptoms to make diagnosis determination; and/or I have trained in techniques for starting intravenous (IV) therapy; and/or I have trained in techniques in using electrocardiograms, defibrillator, and advanced life support; and/or i have observed use of life-saving trauma equipment. I have assisted with endotracheal intubation or other airways (i.e., intubations, bag valve mask (BVM)); and/or I have placed cricothyroidotomies, peripheral vascular access devices, central venous catheters, chest tubes, and tracheotomies with direction; and/or I have co-facilitated the use of air casts/splint, backboard application, or other immobilization equipment; and/or I have assisted with glucose monitoring, blood pressure application/reading, and pulse oximeter. None of the above. 4.3 The Paramedic must be able to think clearly during emergency situations and must remain calm in order to provide appropriate diagnoses and treatment for medical or surgical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed triage and directed less experienced staff regarding patient disposition; and/or I have treated most seriously injured and performed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS)/advanced trauma life support (ATLS); and/or I have treated medical emergencies such as heat strokes; and/or I have provided first treatment to stab victims or gunshot wounds; and/or I have managed complex emergency births. I have provided basic life support (BLS) and described responses in order to route medical emergency; and/or I have provided first aid to fracture until transported to medical facility; and/or I have performed uncomplicated births (deliveries); and/or I have treated heat-related disorders. I have observed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) and treatment of trauma victims; and/or I have treated simple dehydration; and/or I have administered over-the-counter (OTC) oral medication; and/or I have treated cuts, abrasions, strains, and sprains. None of the above. 4.4 The Paramedic must be able to assess the condition of a large number of patients such as in a massive tragedy situation and provide appropriate treatment. He/she must assess the level of seriousness and level of priority for each patient. He/she must be able to identify patients with multiple medical problems and modify care accordingly. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taken and recorded blood pressure of patient; and/or I have, during disaster drills, when presented with a scenario from physicians, described how to assess the patient; and/or I have described plan of action and course of treatment. I have identified, evaluated, and provided urgent care for patients with underlying problems and multiple medical conditions; and/or I have assessed and treated multiple trauma victims/patients; and/or I have identified and treated patients with multiple medical problems who present urgent medical needs; and/or I have modified care to accommodate other conditions such as picking an appropriate drug to administer to an asthma patient who is also taking several heart medications. I have identified specific problems but referred to another practitioner for resolution; and/or I have conducted triage and prioritized patient’s conditions for treatment; and/or I have recognized common cardiac symptoms and was able to provide appropriate medical interventions for complaint. None of the above. 4.5 The Paramedic must calculate dosages required and administer medication by mouth, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, or intravenous methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have described how to use training and education to identify adverse medication reactions, and appropriate responses; and/or I have calculated dosage for patients based on age/weight; and/or I have administered medication, primarily oral route in routine situations on a frequent basis. I have assisted in calculating medication dosage; and/or I have assisted in identifying adverse medication reactions; and/or I have, in training scenarios, administered medication according to regulations. I have administered medication by multiple routes on a frequent or daily basis; and/or I have administered high risk medication and monitored for side effects; and/or I have identified adverse medication reactions and initiated appropriate response measures. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).