Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-12 level, specialized experience must demonstrate the following: Experience independently advising on trusts and estates for a large complex organization. Experience with gifts and bequests, contracts or taxes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-13 level, specialized experience must demonstrate the following: Experience as subject matter expert advising on trusts and estates for a large complex organization. Experience with gifts and bequests, contracts or taxes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Rate your level of experience with trust and estates below. Ensure the reported knowledge is clearly documented in your resume or addressed in your cover letter.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert in trusts and estates, supervising junior member of a team. I have practical/on the job experience with trusts and estates, but I am not a subject matter expert. I have a combination of education and practical experience with trusts and estates. I have education but no experience in trusts and estates. I do not have experience or education in trusts and estates. 5 Rate your level of experience with gifts and bequests below. Ensure the reported knowledge is clearly documented in your resume or addressed in your cover letter.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert in gifts and bequests, supervising junior member of a team. I have practical/on the job experience with gifts and bequests, but I am not a subject matter expert. I have a combination of education and practical experience with gifts and bequests I have education but no experience in gifts and bequests I do not have experience or education in gifts and bequests 6 Rate your level of experience with tax laws below. Ensure the reported knowledge is clearly documented in your resume or addressed in your cover letter.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am considered a Subject Matter Expert in tax laws, supervising junior member of a team. I have practical/on the job experience with tax laws, but I am not a subject matter expert. I have a combination of education and practical experience with tax laws I have education but no experience in tax laws I do not have experience or education in tax laws. 7 I have a J.D. or LL.B. degree. Answer to this question is required True False 8 I am an active member of the bar in good standing in any state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Answer to this question is required True False 9 I understand that if I do not submit a cover letter my application will not be considered. I have submitted a cover letter with all the required information. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand that if I do not submit my law school transcripts my application will not be considered. I have submitted a copy of my law school transcripts. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.