Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described below. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I posses 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Specialized experience is defined as experience independently extracting, transforming, and integrating complex, multi-source datasets using Python, R, or SQL; developing reproducible data pipelines; and applying statistical or analytical techniques to produce and present insights, visualizations, and models that inform organizational decision making. Grade: 12 1 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Specialized experience is defined as experience designing and implementing automated data workflows and analytical products using Python, R, or SQL; integrating and validating large, complex, structured, and unstructured data from numerous internal and external sources; developing advanced data visualizations, statistical analyses, and models; and translating analytical results into actionable recommendations for senior staff or program stakeholders, both orally and in writing. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 10 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).