Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following news media-related roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson Press Officer Media Strategist Public Liaison Strategic Communications Officer Public Affairs Officer None of the above 4 Experience managing complex public affairs projects and teams Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following type(s) of information / materials have you evaluated? Answer to this question is required Blog Programs Website Content Photographs Opinion pieces for newspaper Letters to the Editors Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications Plans Congressional Testimony Policy guidance Feature articles Brochures Video scripts Books None of the Above 6 Plan, coordinate and supervise public affairs projects to fulfill a plan's goals. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following functions have you performed in a supervisory role? Answer to this question is required I have created staff positions. I have conducted performance appraisals. I have interviewed and hired staff. I have terminated employees or performed other adverse actions. I have identified employees for bonuses, awards, or other incentives. I have promoted Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) program adherence. I have identified training and developmental needs for employees. None of the above 8 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Developing, updating and executing portions of a project plan Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing work for technical adequacy and completeness Ensuring timelines and milestones are met Resolving personnel conflicts, differences or problems that have arisen in the work unit Coaching and mentoring individuals / team members to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implemented steps to maintain and improve morale None of the above 9 Select the one answer that best describes your experience in a supervisory / managerial / leadership capacity, mediating complex personnel issues / problems / conflicts while working with a professional level staff. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 What functions have you performed in connection with world or national events? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson to media on world or national events. Written or edited information materials on world or national events. Organized briefings, lectures, or seminars for the public or specialized audiences on world or national events. Briefed organization leadership on world or national events. None of the above 11 Which of the following news media-related roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson Writer/ editor Media strategist Media advisor Journalism professor or trainer Journalist Producer/ director Publisher News broadcaster None of the above 12 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have led staff to achieve tactical and strategic goals I have interacted with and advised senior officials on matters of considerable importance or impact I have interacted with members of Congress or congressional staff regarding policy, programs, or other substantive issues I have conveyed information, on background or for the record, to U.S. or foreign news media I have represented my employer as a spokesperson to domestic or foreign publics None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.