Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 The mandatory training that follows is required by the head of the U.S. Department of State for this position, unless a waiver is granted. Carefully read all possible answer responses before making a selection. Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience, OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have a Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) certification OR a Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Contracting (Professional) certification and have completed 80 Continuous Learning Points every two years. IN ADDITION to completing the mandatory FAC-C (Professional) or DAWIA Contracting (Professional) training requirements, I have at least 4 years of experience in contracting or related positions and completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field from an accredited college or university AND this degree included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have a Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) certification OR a Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Contracting (Professional) certification and have completed 80 Continuous Learning Points every two years. IN ADDITION to completing the mandatory FAC-C (Professional) or DAWIA Contracting (Professional) training requirements, I have continuously occupied my position, which is classified in the GS-1102 series, since January 1, 2000. I do not meet any of the basic qualification requirements described above. 2 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Answer to this question is required Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 6 I have knowledge of the following: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal contract laws and regulations Fixed price contract Cost contracts Special contractual provisions and incentives Methods for contract cost analysis Regulatory requirements pertinent to various installation support services None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of work experience in performing all phases of the contracting process: Answer to this question is required I have performed all phases of the contracting process and either assisted in the development of the contracting program strategies for an organization or developed contract management, procurement or acquisition policies, procedures or methods for use by others. I have performed all phases of the contracting process assisting in the development of contracting program strategies for an organization and developed contract management, procurement or acquisition policies, procedures or methods for use by others. I have performed all phases of the contracting process, but have not developed contract management, procurement or acquisition policies, procedures or methods for use by others. I have education and some experience in performing the contracting process. None of the above 8 Select the responses from the following list of contract / procurement / acquisition areas that would best describe your experience. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Conducting Price / Cost Analyses Industry Pricing Trends and Marketing Practices Developing Negotiation Objectives Conducting Negotiations Best Value Procurement Performance Based Contracts Past Performance Oral Proposals Section 508 Competitive Source Selection Process Collective Bargaining Agreements / DOL Procedures Novation Agreements and Assignment of Claims None of the above. 9 Which phases of the procurement process have you completed training? Answer to this question is required Acquisition planning Contract formation Contract administration Contract closeout None of the above 10 Negotiate agreements on matters involving differing perspectives or positions and successfully persuade others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, and/or alternative viewpoints. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Select the responses that best describe your experience in the following areas of contract / procurement / acquisitions. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Preparing price / cost analyses Analyzing industry pricing trends and marketing practices Developing negotiation objectives Conducting negotiations Conducting best value procurement Awarding performance based contracts Evaluating past performance Evaluating oral proposals Experience with Section 508 Participating in competitive source selection process Working with collective bargaining agreements / Dept of Labor procedures Conducting novation agreements and assignment of claims Preparing simplified acquisition orders Obtaining wage adjustments from the Department of Labor Preparing funding or administrative modifications None of the above 12 Which answer BEST describes your experience determining methods of procurement and contract type? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following automated acquisition systems do you use? Answer to this question is required Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) Central Contractor Registery (CCR) Past Performance Evaluation Systems Fedbizops Other 14 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience with contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, or processes used within the private industry or the U.S. government. I have education or training in contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes used in the private industry. I have education or training in contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes used by the U.S. government. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes with supervision used within the private industry. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes with supervision used by the U.S. government. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes as a part of a team used within the private industry. I have applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes as a part of a team used by the U.S. government. I have independently applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes used within the private industry. I have independently applied contracting and procurement laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes used by the U.S. government. 15 Evaluate acquisition policies and procedures in a contract specialist or procurement analyst role. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in performing this task. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your experience monitoring such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing procurement requests to ensure that they are appropriate and justified? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 18 Select the answers that describe the communication / briefing skills you have used to convey information on acquisition programs. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive material for various audiences. I have drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have edited reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience. I have briefed managers / executives on technical information both within and outside the Agency. I have provided briefings and defended controversial issues to a variety of audiences. None of the above 19 I have drafted and/or analyzed the following types of documents: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Engineering reports Project reports Budget Inventory reports Construction inspection records Material test results Plan specifications Bid documentation Contracts Engineering manuals None of the above 20 What contracting methods have you used for procurement? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Micro purchases (less than $2,500) Simplified Acquisitions GSA Federal Supply Schedule Commercial Acquisition None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.