Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Basic Requirements: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a undergraduate or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or other related disciplines appropriate to this position. I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in this field. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience that demonstrates that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in this field. My education and/or experience does not match any of the basic qualification requirements described above. 2 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. I do not meet the experience requirement described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following type(s) of analysis have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or Financial Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Social or Cultural None of the above 2 From the following list, please identify the types of written products you have authored or reviewed and provided final edits: Answer to this question is required Conflict or stabilization analyses Strategic framework or policies Policy memorandums Talking points and briefing papers Speeches Training materials Strategic planning or facilitation guides Program design, monitoring and evaluation Program scopes of work None of the above 3 Which of the following types of foreign assistance accounts have you managed? Answer to this question is required Foreign Military Financing (FMF) International Military Education and Training (IMET) Peacekeeping Operations (PKO) Economic Support Funds (ESF) International Narcotics Control & Law Enforcement (INCLE) Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining, and Related Program (NADR) Assistance for Europe Eurasia and Central Asia (AEECA) None of the above 4 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 5 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems Prepare executive summaries of projects / portfolios / transactions Prepare routine status reports Report existing or anticipate problems Evaluate complex scenarios and recommend solutions None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.