Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to coordinate deliveries and communicate with multiple agencies and vendors.** Ability to work effectively with service units, the Architect of the Capitol (AOC), United States Capitol Police (USCP), and external vendors to support the movement of goods and services for the Library of Congress. This includes the planning and coordination of activities including: 1) vehicular and material traffic; 2) incoming and outgoing mail, freight, and parcels; 3) ensuring safe loading dock operations; 4) managing vendor delivery schedules; and 5) providing guidance and direction for drivers through the vehicle screening process. Answer to this question is required Independently coordinated deliveries and shipments for a large warehouse and/or loading dock with multiple functional areas and in doing so, performed ALL of the following: 1) vehicular and material traffic; 2) incoming and outgoing mail, freight, and parcels; 3) ensuring safe loading dock operations; 4) managing vendor delivery schedules; and 5) providing guidance and direction for drivers through the vehicle screening process. Independently coordinated deliveries and shipments for a large warehouse and/or loading dock with multiple functional areas and in doing so, performed FOUR (4) of the above. Independently coordinated deliveries and shipments for a large warehouse and/or loading dock with multiple functional areas and in doing so, performed THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to manage loading dock operations.** Demonstrated the ability to manage loading dock operations, In doing so: 1) ensured vehicles are parked in appropriate loading dock locations; 2) communicated and enforced the 30-minute time limit for vehicles; 3) refused hazardous deliveries that are not properly coordinated or transported; 4) enforced safety practices within the loading dock area; 5) prepared monthly statistics and operational reports; 6) determined vehicle access to the loading dock based on size and operational requirements and; 7) identified and reported issues with dock equipment to the appropriate office. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated the ability to manage loading dock operations. In doing so, conducted ALL the above activities With minimum supervision, demonstrated the ability to manage dock operations . In doing so, conducted 5 (FIVE) of the above activities. With minimum supervision, demonstrated the ability to manage dock operations . In doing so, conducted 3 (THREE) of the above activities None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to maintain access control and manage loading dock security operations.** Ability to perform access control and managed loading dock security operations by completing the following activities: 1) maintaining acute situational awareness; 2) strictly enforcing dock access procedures and reported violations to USCP Capitol police; 3) overseeing the activities of the loading dock and ensure egress routes are cleared; 4) ensuring that door locks and all mechanics are operating properly, including (door jams, frames etc.); and 5) reporting and coordinating all required maintanence to ensure the proper operation of same. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above activities in a loading dock setting. Performed FOUR of the above activities in a loading dock setting. Performed THREE of the above activities in a loading dock setting. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 10 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).