Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Applicants must address the following mandatory qualifications&nbsp;separate from their resumes. Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical qualifications.&nbsp; You will not be considered for this position if you fail to submit qualification statements specifically addressing each mandatory technical qualification requirement. 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to grade level GS-15 in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. Specialized experience is defined as:&nbsp; 1) Leading enterprise cybersecurity programs and policy in a complex organization; 2) Developing and enforcing cybersecurity standards and control frameworks aligned with federal requirements; 3) Directing cyber risk management, incident response, and security performance reporting; exercising executive leadership in enterprise IT strategy, governance, capital planning, and operational resilience; 4) Overseeing end-user computing or user services functions that include help desk operations, endpoint engineering, identity and access management, and asset lifecycle management; 5) Supervising senior managers or multidisciplinary professional staff; and 6) Managing budgets, forecasts, and high-value IT contracts, including serving in a senior contract oversight or COR capacity. Answer to this question is required Yes No Mastery of the theories, concepts, standards and practices of Information Technology (IT) enterprise portfolio management and leadership, with particular emphasis on effective strategic planning and implementation. This includes the ability to coordinate, plan, and direct projects staffed with representatives of highly collaborative, cross-functional teams to ensure successful completion. Mastery of the principles, methods, services, best practices and techniques used in the IT field and their application to advance and enable business strategic priorities. This requires the possession of expert knowledge of the critical role Information Technology plays in advancing and supporting business and mission priorities. This includes the ability to apply this expert knowledge in the context of a large organization with a variety of complex program responsibilities. Leverages expert knowledge of advancements in the information technology industry to address mission and business issues and challenges; to develop and implement cutting edge, innovative solutions for the organization; to plan and conduct feasibility studies, and to advise senior organizational management concerning resource management strategies. &nbsp;Leading Change: This core qualification involves the ability to bring about strategic change, both within and outside the organization, to meet organizational goals. Inherent to this core qualification is the ability to establish an organizational vision and to implement it in a continuously changing environment. Leading People: This core qualification involves the ability to lead people toward meeting the organization&rsquo;s vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this core qualification is the ability to provide an inclusive workplace that fosters the development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and supports constructive resolution of conflicts. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.