Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Reported serious security deficiencies to appropriate party for corrective action. Provided installation documentation in support of an IT network. Conducted a hardware equipment review as instructed. Modified existing program. Attended design meeting. Controlled and maintained physical storage of media in accordance with policies and procedures. Monitored security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Determined availability of space for hardware. Assisted in the development of data models, ensuring compliance with data management standards. Developed web page in compliance with specifications and instructions. Ensured web page requests were consistent with relevant design and formatting standards. Assisted with or performed some tasks required to set up a file server. Assisted with the planning and implementation of a computer network. Ensured application changes were consistent with relevant design and formatting standards. Assisted in the development of equipment build documents. Reviewed and provided comments on draft procedures/policy with regard to implementing or using a system or program. Controlled the physical storage of notebook computers and all associated hardware. Conducted performance tuning activities designed to optimize data management processes. Assisted in calculating the cost of new hardware to be included in the cost benefits analysis of a feasibility study. Applied proper configurations in the installation of hardware. Installed emulation or network cards in accordance with manufacturers instructions and specifications. Monitored database systems that were covered by a system or records to protect the privacy of the individual data contained in the system. Customer Service : Responded to end user inquiries to resolve software problems encountered. Provided guidance to staff regarding proper labeling and protecting sensitive electronic information. Analyzed individual requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions. Provided assistance to peers in the design of a planned IT network or system. Evaluated and assisted peers with a network design draft for an IT network or system. Assisted in providing informal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Provided assistance to users by referring computer questions to the proper contact person. Utilized existing documentation to communicate with and train staff. Responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine computer issues. Trained end users to correct information security deficiencies. Surveyed user requirements and summarized results for supervisory consideration. Taught new staff how to log in and use their PC's e-mail, word processing and the internet. Assisted end-users on an individual basis to help identify and resolve problems and followed up to ensure problem was resolved. Assisted in monitoring security procedures and reported deviations to appropriate party. Provided routine guidance to staff in the area of system development and planning. Developed user guides for applications and operating systems. Assisted in writing procedures for a new computer system. Coordinated efforts in the installation of WordPerfect, dBASE IV, or Lotus 1-2-3. Provided advice and guidance to co-workers, managers, etc. on a various IT related issues. Provided technical assistance to end users on non-routine issues/problems. Performed research on user needs. Served as a computer contact person for LAN and monitored incoming calls for assistance. Oral Communication : Advised internet content reviewers on web page requirements. Worked on IT help desk providing basic support. Communicated information in a variety of settings (one-on-one, group, executive) in a manner understood by varying knowledge levels. Obtained reports on virus incidents and notified appropriate party for further action. Conducted computer security training to new employees. Problem Solving : Solved routine errors in computer program. Followed instructions provided by technical support personnel to correct a computer problem. Troubleshoots and diagnosed most network problems (i.e., network cards, cables, switches, hubs and routers). Ran text inquiries to troubleshoot data. Solved problems independently by studying logical progression of an event which led to a problem then recommended a method to prevent a recurrence by modifying program. Assisted in one of the following: Participated in the creation of a program or procedure for gathering data or input, established criteria for analysis, or developed proposals for resolution and provided recommendations. Recovered lost data from a taped backup. Used diagnostic programs to diagnose drive problems and either replaced damaged disk drive or recovered drive, as appropriate. Served as a team member tasked with redesigning system after a serious problem was detected/diagnosed. Detected a deficiency in a software program and coordinated with the developer to resolve. Conducted performance tuning activities designed to optimize data management processes. Provided technical assistance to end-users on non-routine issues/problems. Performed minor adjustments to maintenance on LAN or mainframe system. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Systems Administrators (ADP) must be able to communicate technical information orally and in writing, technical information with end-users in a non-technical, clear and concise manner. They must possess the ability to verbally explain, train and manage the resources of a UNICOR computer services and possess the ability to clearly communicate information in writing so it is clearly understood by the targeted audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated sensitive information relative to information security; and/or I have obtained user requirements for IT software; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within an agency/organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature and possible solutions of programming problems discovered in hardware or software; and/or I have prepared a guide on how to operate the organizations computer systems; and/or I have communicated with end-users to resolve non-routine computer hardware or software issues. I have contacted a vendor for technical support, which expedited the resolution of a complex issue; and/or I have assessed an end-users problem and implemented a resolution and explained processes to avoid recurrence; and/or I have provided formal professional IT training to mid-level managers; and/or I have communicated with end users either on-site or via telephone providing complex/technical computer hardware or software support. I have utilized existing documentation to communicate with and train staff; and/or I have communicated IT information both orally and in writing in a variety of settings (one-on-one, groups, executive) in a manner understood by varying knowledge levels; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to co-workers, managers, etc., on various IT related issues; and/or I have responded to end-user inquiries to resolve software problems encountered. None of the above. 5 Systems Administrators (ADP) analyze system design needs, anticipate problems in computer programs, propose, and implement solutions. They must possess the ability to troubleshoot and solve problems encountered, applying alternative approaches to resolve issues and detect if problems are caused by users or hardware/software issues. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by a manager; and/or I have reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred it to a Computer Programmer; and/or I have followed instructions provided by technical support personnel to correct a computer problem. I have served on a computer security committee to resolve security issues effecting the organization; and/or I have diagnosed and solved system problems as member of a team to re-design a system; and/or I have coordinated efforts to integrate and install software/hardware components during large-scale computer upgrades; and/or I have prepared memo/ instructions for users as a reminder of the correct operation and/or security procedures of a system. I have applied a variety of debugging techniques in resolving complex software problems; and/or I have provided guidance to lower level computer programmers in debugging and testing programs; and/or I have identified program problems to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have resolved software/hardware issues when designing a database management system; and/or I have installed and administered a LAN/local area network; and/or I have independently isolated and identified computer/network problems to the component level and then corrected the problem; and/or I have isolated, identified, and determined if problems were caused by hardware or software and successfully corrected the problems encountered. None of the above. 6 Systems Administrators (ADP) must possess comprehensive knowledge of network systems in order to maintain and manage current network setup and performance . They must be able to describe the features and functions of networking components. They must possess the knowledge and skills needed to install, configure and troubleshoot basic networking hardware, protocols and services.&nbsp; Technical abilities include the areas of media and topologies, protocols and standards, network implementations, and network support. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed and configured file servers for use in a large multi-user network; and/or I have acted as a consultant or lead technical specialist for the planning and implementation, including infrastructure, hardware, software, and capacity requirements for a large multi-user computer network; and/or I have performed network administrator functions including for user administration, backup/recovery, file security, application launching, and software upgrades for a large multi-user computer system. I have designed and implemented networks and/or modified existing networks; and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement network, including standards, protocols, and equipment requirements; and/or I have analyzed statistics in and recommended a method to make the network more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. I have installed, maintained, and configured network equipment (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers); and/or I have troubleshot and diagnosed most network problems (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers) and effectively implemented resolutions to problems encountered; and/or I have provided technical assistance to end users on non-routine issues/problems. None of the above. 7 Systems Administrators (ADP) must possess the ability to interpret and apply information security guidelines and ensure UNICOR&rsquo;s computers are being maintained in compliance with governing regulations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have detected a security deficiency in a software program and coordinated with the vendor to resolve; and/or I have controlled and maintained physical storage of media in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have reported serious security deficiencies to appropriate party for corrective action; and/or I have trained end-users on the spot to correct information security deficiencies. I have implemented a security plan involving hardware and software safeguards; and/or I have recommended a department-wide information security plan and informed managers of necessary resource requirements for implementation; and/or I have designed a complete information security plan and conducted periodic audits to ensure continued compliance with governing regulations. I have updated curriculum for training to encompass changes in information security requirements for a department/agency/organization; and/or I have designed a portion of an agency/organization information security plan; and/or I have inspected various computer work sites to ensure information security procedures are in place and being consistently followed. None of the above. 8 Systems Administrators (ADP) must have the ability to estimate resource requirements for systems in terms of equipment, manpower, and time. They must be able to coordinate and prioritize efforts to ensure programs are completed as projected. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented justification and resource requirements to department managers for modification of hardware or software plans; and/or I have recommended large-scale upgrades of computer systems; and/or I have changed previous year’s plan to fit current year’s needs; and/or I have prepared documentation for a cost/benefit study. I have performed research on user needs; and/or I have contacted vendors for information on retraining staff using another computer language; and/or I have determined availability of space for hardware or one course or formal training class in budgetary considerations, resource planning, or financial planning. I have determined cost requirements and planned the installation of a local area network; and/or I have developed a feasibility study which included software/hardware/manpower costs; and/or I have estimated the cost to implement a computer security system and followed through to installation; and/or as project leader of a design team, I was responsible for planning, coordinating, and prioritizing activities for a group. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).