Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Experience developing content for exhibitions or interpretive experiences.** Experience conducting research and developing content for exhibitions, immersive experiences, or media. Answer to this question is required Independently conducted research and developed content and storylines for exhibitions, displays, immersive experiences or media. With minimal or limited supervision conducted research for exhibitions and developed content and storylines for public displays, immersive experiences or media. Worked with others to conduct research for exhibitions, develop content and storylines for public displays, immersive experiences or media. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to manage exhibitions or other interpretive projects with numerous deadlines and to solve complex problems.** Managed a workload of multiple assignments and met demanding project deadlines. Worked independently with initiative to complete assignments and meet deadlines. Managed a varied workload while working simultaneously on exhibits and interpretive projects with multiple deadlines. Solved complex problems independently. Answer to this question is required Planned and completed work on numerous exhibit or interpretive projects for more than one project simultaneously meeting established deadlines, independently and/or with minimal supervision. Worked on numerous exhibit or interpretive projects meeting established deadlines, with minimal supervision. Worked on exhibit or interpretive projects meeting established deadlines, under the direction of supervisor. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to interact collaboratively with others.** Developed and maintained professional relationships with a variety of people from diverse backgrounds to collaborate on exhibits, explain procedures and exchange information. Possessed skills in planning and interpersonal communication to effectively work with team leaders and supervisors, other staff members, contractors, and consultants to advance the production of museum-quality exhibitions. Answer to this question is required Led collaborations with museum personnel and a variety of individuals (i.e., curators, designers, and conservators) to communicate the processes and tasks associated with museum exhibit development. As a key team member, collaborated with museum personnel and a variety of individuals (i.e., curators, designers, and conservators) to communicate the processes and tasks associated with museum exhibit development. Routinely collaborated with colleagues and co-workers to communicate the processes and tasks associated with museum exhibition development. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing.** Prepared clear, well-organized, accurate and well-researched written products such as: 1) exhibit scripts, 2) journal or magazine articles (print or online), 3) marketing materials or correspondence, and 4) management reports and presentation materials. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently authored ALL of the above for dissemination within and outside the organization. As a primary job responsibility, routinely authored THREE (3) of the above, some independently and some with supervisory review for dissemination within and outside the organization. As a primary job responsibility, authored AT LEAST TWO (2) of the above for supervisory review. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).