Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 4 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 5 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? (MC) Answer to this question is required Produced a technical or policy report that relays findings in a larger context. Analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue. Produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results. Collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 6 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above. 7 Please identify each of the following with which you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Counseling Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADP) None of the above 8 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Discipline Awards Leave Scheduling Staffing Conflict resolution Coaching and or counseling Labor relations Team, project, and/or task leader None of the above 9 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Provided guidance to peers, subordinates, and others in a customer service environment. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. None of the above. 10 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 11 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. None of the above. 12 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.