Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following collections management and exhibitions tasks do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed installation of museum exhibitions I have managed take down of museum exhibitions I have managed collections records for exhibitions I have analyzed exhibition cases I have analyzed object mounts I have coordinated transportation of objects I have monitored exhibition maintenance I have worked as part of a cross-functional exhibition team None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience demonstrating your ability to oversee exhibition planning and development? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team in planning and developing a major exhibition. I have experience being responsible for the research and content development for exhibitions. I have experience being responsible for managing the budget and schedule for a major exhibition. I have experience having led evaluation for exhibition projects. I have experience being familiar with the principles and techniques of participatory exhibitions. I have performed no activities related to exhibition planning and development. 4 Which of the following represent your experience(s) as a museum Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the development of museum exhibitions from intellectual concept through design, construction, installation, maintenance, take down, and project closeout. I have managed the development of museum exhibitions with educational and public programs components. I have managed the development of museum exhibitions with web-based educational media. I have managed the development of museum exhibitions with multimedia presentations in exhibition spaces. I have managed the development of museum exhibitions with significant collections management requirements (e.g., many objects, large range of type, size and materials, pulling from loans, acquisitions, & standing collections, and with substantial preservation needs). I have managed the development of museum exhibitions with internal and external peer review. I have managed the development of educational products using electronic outreach delivery systems via video conferencing, satellite programming, and touch-screen technology. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing or managing traveling exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have overseen a traveling exhibition program, selected exhibitions for travel, developed an exhibition action plan from the identification of goals, cost analysis, and design arrangement, and overseen the booking/logistics for traveling exhibits. I have led a team in the planning, design, structure, and/or tour of a traveling exhibition. I have assisted staff in the development of and logistics for a traveling exhibition. I have conducted research, concept development, planning, schedule, and design for an exhibition. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following activities related to outgoing and incoming loans in a museum have you performed? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have evaluated loan requests and facilities reports. I have identified, assessed, and managed risk factors for loan objects. I have negotiated loan requirements, and prepared loan agreements. I have completed loan renewal, return, and recall processes. I have handled insurance arrangements and projections for loan objects. I have documented and tracked loan details in a collections information database and paper records. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experiences related to the development of museum programs, exhibitions, and related media? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have served as the project lead for the development of a large scale, multi-year museum exhibition, public program, or museum project. I have served as the project team member for the development of a large scale, multi-year museum exhibition, public program or museum project. I have completed formal training in the area of the exhibition design and development, and have contributed to the development of an exhibition or museum program. I have completed formal training related to exhibition design and development but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have no training or experience in this area. 8 Which of the leadership functions have you performed successfully on projects that you led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines and expectations I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 9 Which of the following elements of supervision have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation. Recruitment / hiring. Discipline. Awards. Leave. Scheduling. Staffing. Conflict resolution. Coaching and or counseling. Labor relations. Managing diversity. Team, project, and/or task leader. None of the above. 10 Which of the following exhibition-related materials have you reviewed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required I have reviewed and guided staff on the development of exhibition proposals, investigation reports, and project charters. I have reviewed and guided staff on the development of exhibition budgets and spending plans. I have reviewed and guided staff on the development of exhibition scripts, exhibition designs, and fabrication plans. I have reviewed and guided staff on the development of exhibition-related educational materials. None of the above. 11 Which of the following tasks describe your experience with managing service and/or exhibition venue contracts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have monitored deliverables for service contracts written by others. I have created service contract statements of work and negotiating schedules and deliverables with vendors and contractors. I have negotiated terms and conditions for traveling exhibition agreements. I have managed several exhibitions in a museum or gallery organization, prepared and tracked all loan documentation, and communicated loan conditions to appropriate museum staff for the proper care of loans to the exhibition. I have managed at least three exhibitions per year in a museum or gallery organization including traveling exhibitions, maintained all exhibition project records, upheld loan requirements and anticipated loan budgets, and prepared exhibition venue documents for traveling exhibitions including special conditions for lent works. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following types of people have you worked with on project teams? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Curators. Evaluators. Designers or design firms. Project managers. Multimedia producers. Social media developers. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describe your experience in collections management policy development in a museum? Answer to this question is required I have led the development of a collections management policy. I have worked collaboratively on a cross-functional team to develop a collections management policy. I have worked with my supervisor on developing a collections management policy. I do not have experience in developing a collections management policy. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.