Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 I am a current employee at the FCC. Answer to this question is required Yes No REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-13: &nbsp; In order to be deemed as qualified candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1) Experience performing at least three or more of the following: Paperwork Reduction and Information Collection, Freedom of Information Act Management, Records Management and File Analysis, Travel Coordination, Space and Planning Management, Calendars and Meeting Planning, Congressional Inquiries, and Unified Agenda. 2) Experience using analytical, investigative, and evaluative techniques to resolve issues and conduct complex studies and projects. 3) Experience interacting with a variety of individuals at all levels of authority. 4) Experience writing a variety of documents such as letters, memorandums, and reports. 7 GS-13 You must have one year of specialized experience in or equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equal or equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing the above tasks on a regular and recurring basis. I do not meet the above requirements. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).