Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. This includes knowledge of the history, trends, and current status of federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation policy, or tax expenditures policy and their interrelationship with economics and other tax policy areas. Answer to this question is required Have knowledge of public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures, including pertinent public policy issues, as demonstrated by, for example, having independently conducted research related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in a work setting; published research on public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional journal; completed a doctoral or equivalent academic program in economics combined with some applied experience related to a public policy issue in federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures including pertinent public policy issues, as demonstrated by, for example, having completed a doctoral or equivalent academic program in economics; assisted with research in public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in a work setting; served as a contributing author to published research on public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in a peer-reviewed professional journal; or equivalent work experience. Have knowledge of public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures as demonstrated by, for example, having completed a master’s or equivalent academic program in economics, served as a research assistant in the public or private sector, or equivalent work experience. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze public policy issues.** Applied knowledge of public economics to the analysis of public policy issues related to federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. Examples include: 1) conceptualized and defined public policy problems, 2) designed and utilized pertinent quantitative and/or qualitative research and analytical methodologies and techniques, 3) analyzed and synthesized information and research, 4) identified implications of data and drew appropriate conclusions, 5) generated and assessed alternatives, and 6) evaluated the consequences of choosing each alternative. This also includes understanding the big picture and the interrelationships of all aspects of the public policy issue, and the proven ability to acquire new skills and knowledge by staying current in research and analytical methods and techniques. Answer to this question is required Have experience applying knowledge, skill, training, and/or project work experience in public economics to conduct analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national significance related to federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a few established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research methods and techniques. For example, have published graduate-level research findings and in so doing, performed at least two of the above examples. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layman. Have experience applying knowledge, skill, training, and/or project work experience in public economics to conduct analysis of moderately complex public policy issues related to federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of an established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research method or technique. For example, completed research studies or projects that involved the standard application of an established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research method or technique at a level equivalent to a doctoral dissertation, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. Interpreted results of research for peers. Have experience applying knowledge, skill, training, and/or project work experience in public economics to conduct analysis of a public policy issue of limited complexity that is related to federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. For example, completed research studies or projects that involved the standard application of an established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research method or technique at a level equivalent to a master’s thesis, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. Interpreted results of research for peers. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to write in a public policy context.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, and well-organized products on public policy issues related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Answer to this question is required Prepared multiple comprehensive analyses of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review, such as a research study for a professional society or think tank, for a manager in the public or private sector, or for an academic degree. These products were related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. Prepared at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review. The product was related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. Frequently wrote descriptive or background reports on public policy issues related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures, such as papers for seminars or briefing materials for other professionals or managers. Prepared at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review. The product was related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. Wrote descriptive or background material for the purpose of clarifying situations or issues in an academic or office context, that was not disseminated to a broader audience. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to convey analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings and presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures. &nbsp;This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Communicated technical/complex issues by using examples as necessary. Examples include serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops; serving as a teaching assistant in a public policy graduate program; or equivalent experience. Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in a structured setting to professionals in your field. Examples include discussing various policy options with peers, defending a doctoral dissertation, contributing at seminars or professional conferences, or equivalent experience. Presented public policy information or research related to public economics with an emphasis on federal tax administration and enforcement, individual income taxation, or tax expenditures in a structured setting to professionals in your field. Examples include presenting research to peers, defending a master’s thesis, participating in seminars or professional conferences, or equivalent experience. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).