Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following human resources specialty areas do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Placement Labor Relations Employee Relations Human Resources Development Performance Management Classification Compensation Military Information Systems Employee Benefits Senior Executive Service (SES) Political Appointees None of the above 2 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have researched human resources data to provide recommendations that affected human resources policy. I have researched Human Resources laws using the Code of Federal Regulations, United States Code (U.S.C.), and the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions to determine the appropriate hiring authorities, designations, status codes, appointment types, etc. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to colleagues. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to management. I have researched human resources rules and regulations to persuade others to modify a decision that was previously determined. I have no experience in researching human resources issues. 3 Choose the statement(s) that describe your communication skills in the human resources area: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoken on behalf of my organizations unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. None of the above. 4 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 5 From the following list, select those that represent your experience in identifying and resolving issues. Answer to this question is required Work closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitate the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepare analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Frequently review and recommend improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Serve on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 6 I have experience in assessing program / project effectiveness by: Answer to this question is required Creating an audit process. Designing a study. Designing a survey / questionnaire. Implementing a survey. Analyzing outcome data related to the program / project. Reporting findings. None of the above. 7 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your experience gathering data, conducting analysis and evaluating the results. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed statistical data related to human resources management or programs to identify trends or workforce characteristics that may warrant program changes and/or enhancements. I have knowledge of a wide range of human resources concepts, principles, laws, regulations and practices sufficient to analyze and evaluate data from various human resources program areas and provide sound recommendations for program changes / improvements. I have retrieved, evaluated and analyzed data to assimilate into a report. I have gathered and analyzed human resources data and developed reports. None of the above. 8 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and applied on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Unit (DEU) Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule (GS) Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Executive Orders Collective Bargaining Agreement Pay Setting Policies Guide to the Senior Executive Service (SES) None of the above 9 From the list below, identify all of the activities with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Determining the extent to which a program is compliant with policies, regulations and legislation. Formulating program requirements, guidelines and policies and regulations. Interpreting requirements, guidelines and policies and applying to program operations. Writing program regulations. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.