Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Specialized experience is experience performing routine assignments pertaining to a fleet of government-owned or commercial motor vehicles. This experience must have included: Inputting data on fleet vehicles in an automated system; Answering customers/vendor inquiries regarding fleet operations; Briefing customers on corrective actions for motor vehicles. 1 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service as described above. I have a master’s or equivalent level degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or JD. My major study is in one of the following: accounting, business administration, commerce, economics, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic management, transportation, motor mechanics, or other fields related to the position. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-9 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-7 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-9 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-9 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-9 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-9 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. Grade: 11 Specialized experience is experience assisting in managing, purchasing, operating, and/or maintaining a fleet of government-owned or commercial motor vehicles. This experience must have included: Analyzing data on fleet vehicles in an automated fleet management system; Consulting with customers to identify & assess motor vehicle requirements; Researching fleet operations to identify opportunities for improvement. 1 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service as described above. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Your major study must be in one of the following areas: accounting, business administration, business or commercial law, commerce, economics, engineering, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic management, transportation, motor mechanics, nautical science, marine affairs, marine engineering, marine transportation, or other fields related to the position. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-11 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-9 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-11 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-11 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-11 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 This position requires the operation of a motor vehicle. Do you currently hold a valid state driver`s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).