Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead others.** Supervised others in a workforce environment. Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: 1) Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements and resources to accomplish goals; 2) Solved problems by anticipating and analyzing information to reach conclusion(s); 3) Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity and holding staff accountable; 4) Ensured quality control by monitoring integrity of work performed; 5) Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs and capabilities of staff; 6) Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity; 7) Implemented improvement of current processes and work quality through innovation and continuous development; 8) Motivated and provided direction with constructive feedback and coaching; and 9) Created a work environment that fostered creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to identify, analyze and resolve operational problems, particularly those related to circulation and access, using an integrated library system.** Ability to identify, analyze and resolve problems related to circulation and access through the following: 1) applying knowledge of the intricacies of a library's many catalogs and retrieval tools to assist in the successful resolution of circulation and tracking related problems; 2) identifying, analyzing and resolving policy and other programmatic issues related to circulation and tracking, access, retrieval and inventory management of library materials; and 3) forging solutions to expedite access, retrieval and circulation of library materials. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated the ability to identify, analyze and resolve routine and complex problems related to circulation through the performance of ALL of the above. Independently demonstrated the ability to identify, analyze and resolve routine and complex problems related to circulation through the performance of 1) and 2) of the above. Under supervision, demonstrated the ability to identify, analyze and resolve routine problems related to circulation through the performance of 1) and 2) of the above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to plan and carry out an inventory management, circulation, cataloging, system administration, Interlibrary Loan and document fulfillment program in a library setting.** Developed and administered programs related to inventory management, circulation, cataloging, system administration and document fulfillment program in a library setting. This includes the following: 1) Inventory control (what the library owns); 2) Tracking/circulation (where an item is at any given point in time); 3) Problem resolution (identifying problems with a collections item that may impact on retrievability); and 4) Document delivery (providing items/content upon request, in the most appropriate way). Involvement in these programs was broad, including planning, developing and implementing the program. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the following elements of an inventory management program. Critical elements in these programs to include: 1) Inventory control (what the library owns); 2) Tracking/circulation (where an item is at any given point in time); 3) Problem resolution (identifying problems with a collections item that may impact on retrievability); and 4) Document delivery (providing items/content upon request, in the most appropriate way). Involvement in these programs was broad, including planning, developing and implementing the program. Performed THREE (3) of the following critical elements of an inventory management program: 1) Inventory control (what the library owns); 2) Tracking/circulation (where an item is at any given point in time); 3) Problem resolution (identifying problems with a collections item that may impact on retrievability); 4) Document delivery (providing items/content upon request, in the most appropriate way). Performed at least # 2) and 3) of the above elements including planning, developing and implementing the program. Performed TWO (2) of the following critical elements of an inventory management program: 1) Inventory control (what the library owns); 2) Tracking/circulation (where an item is at any given point in time); 3) Problem resolution (identifying problems with a collections item that may impact on retrievability); 4) Document delivery (providing items/content upon request, in the most appropriate way). Performed at least # 2) and 3) of the above elements including planning, developing and implementing the program. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies. ** Applied knowledge of automated systems and library technology, including MARC-based integrated library systems, in order to monitor and coordinate system enhancements, evaluate systems from both the user and library perspective, and to train staff in their use. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive knowledge of MARC-based integrated library system (including Voyager) features and technology capabilities applied to major library functions and programs. Experience was primarily as a user of the system, rather than playing a role in assessing applicability to critical functions, evaluating the system, and/or making modifications. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities for major library functions and programs for large libraries or very specialized library environments. Had experience with the implementations and testing phase of automated systems, evaluating their applicability to critical functions and recommending enhancements/modifications. Applied knowledge of an integrated library system capabilities and technology capabilities to established library functions and programs. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated in writing to prepare correspondence explaining procedures or issues in a clear and concise manner. Produced written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory responsibilities performed, such as: 1) operational policies and/or procedures; 2) instructional materials; 3) formal correspondence, including letters in response to status inquiries; 4) informal correspondence (e.g., e - mails and memos); and 5) reports or input for section reports (e.g., weekly and annual). Answer to this question is required Under supervision, prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including THREE (3) of the above. As the primary author, prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including FOUR (4) of the above. As the primary author prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including ALL of the above. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).