Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of the Federal budget process and financial management practices and procedures including planning, formulation, justification and execution.** Planned, prepared, justified, and executed budgets for an organization. This included the following activities: 1) participating in agency financial planning activities; 2) forecasting both near and long term budget requirements for ongoing and future operations; 3) developing and reviewing internal agency budget proposals for new initiatives; 4) preparing budget justifications for internal and external audiences; 5) evaluating annual acquisition plans (including IT); 6) monitoring the execution of obligations and expenditures for all budget lines; 7) preparing monthly and quarterly status of funds reports identifying and articulating areas of interest; and 8) developing and reviewing spending plans and hiring plans. Answer to this question is required Managed all phases of budget planning, programming, formulating, presenting, executing, and evaluating for a complex Federal budget at the agency level with multiple funds and encompassing multi-year substantive programs at the agency level. Performed ALL of the activities listed above and developed agency budgetary policies and procedures. Provided advice to executives at a Federal agency or department level or equivalent on budgetary policies and procedures. Conducted all phases of budget formulation, presentation, and execution for one or more national programs and program counterparts within the agency or other agencies. Performed ALL of the activities listed above. Provided advice to executives at a Federal agency or department level or equivalent on budgetary policies and procedures. Provided advice and analysis on a wide variety of administrative and budgetary activities connected with the review, justification, and presentation of the budget for an agency or major component(s), such as developing cost-benefit analysis of proposed budgetary and program actions and providing advice on the most advantageous courses of action. Performed SIX of the activities listed above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to perform budget analysis, formulation and presentation activities.** Prepared budget formulation and presentation materials and engaged in reporting activities, such as 1) prepared presentation materials and presented budget data for assigned segments of an annual budget 2) reviewed standard budget data from various sources and analyzed obligations and expenditures 3) followed established procedures in performing budget presentation activities, such as processing technical documents and other budget reporting activities 4) assisted with the presenting materials and budget data for a single program, using predetermined formulas to prepare straightforward estimates of future requirements for a small operating program and 5) gathered and compiled factual narrative information and quantitative budget data, following established procedures to prepare periodic status reports to submit to senior budget analysts. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY and INDEPENDENTLY performed ALL of the activities above. As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY performed THREE OR FOUR of the activities above. As a primary job responsibility, performed TWO of the activities above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to perform budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting.** Performed the following activities : 1) formulated and justified budget requests; 2) provided financial data for the execution of programs; 3) monitored budget plans; 4) analyzed and synthesized financial data; 5) drafted reports based on financial data; 6) drafted budget proposals; and 7) indicated financial risks and opportunities. Answer to this question is required Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in ALL of the areas listed above. Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in at least FIVE of the areas listed above. Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in at least THREE of the areas listed above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others across the organization and provide liaison support in consolidating or resolving high level financial matters. As a leader, team member or liaison, worked well and cooperated with others including decision-makers, supervisors, other managers and their staffs, other specialists, and experts in the same and other disciplines inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required As a KEY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated an AGENCY-WIDE effort, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. For example, led a collaborative effort that involved gathering financial data from multiple organizations into a coherent, comprehensive, budgetary or execution conclusion or resolution. As a KEY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated a DIVISION OR UNIT-WIDE effort, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. Coordinated and integrated a significant effort requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial budgetary and execution issues. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable documents related to budget and/or financial matters such as: 1) budget justifications, 2) budget reports, 3) analyses and estimates of funding needs for one or more budget years, 4) planning, programming, and budgetary policy and guidance, 5) responses to congressional questions for the record, 6) issue papers, and 7) instructions for financial execution and evaluation. Answer to this question is required As the principal author, routinely wrote ALL of the above documents. Prepared specific letters, budget justification materials for signature and/or transmittal by agency head to the Congress or other external entities. As the principal author, routinely wrote FIVE (5) OR SIX (6) of the above documents, including items 1) through 3). As a contributing author, wrote segments for THREE (3) OR FOUR (4) of the above documents, including items 1) through 3). None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).