Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The National Employee Engagement Administrator facilitates focus groups, coaches and mentors teams to drive consensus, brainstorm and gather data. He/she provides briefings, presentations, and training sessions on the impact of employee engagement on the federal correctional workforce. He/she establishes relations with external contacts to include private industry, professional associations, healthcare organizations, and educational institutions, etc.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided formal training on an assigned topic at a national training event; and/or I have presented a research paper at a professional conference; and/or I have provided constructive verbal feedback to other supervisors/managers based on the results of a staff assistance visit; and/or I have made a presentation to institution staff on a special topic (i.e., burnout, physical or emotional wellness). I have presented recommendations to agency executives as a participant of a national workgroup; and/or I have developed and conducted a formal presentation intended for an audience of Wardens or executives; and/or I have given a professional lecture or led a workshop on agency-wide initiatives. I have provided orientation and training to staff regarding policy and procedures; and/or I have discussed treatment, programs or production with relevant staff or the public to ensure understanding; and/or I have shared information with other professionals in the field and coordinated activities and found solution to common problems. None of the above. 3 The National Employee Engagement Administrator must have knowledge of Bureau of Prisons and Department of Justice policies and procedures. He/she must have substantial knowledge of mission goals and objectives, management philosophy, and current practices and parameters to develop an integrated approach to problem resolution. The National Employee Engagement Administrator must have comprehensive knowledge of the range of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to employee engagement activities. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a correctional, military or law enforcement operation to comply with policy or established professional practices; and/or I have provided technical advice by researching policy and other resources; and/or I have conducted a presentation of a new policy or assisted with an institution informational event. I have worked as an Employee Assistance Program provider serving police or other law enforcement personnel; and/or I have provided Employee Assistance Program services to staff in a correctional institution; and/or I have provided support to military personnel experiencing service-related stress. I have administered an officer employee wellness program or Employee Assistance Program for a police department; and/or I have overseen a soldier support service or Employee Assistance Program for a military unit; and/or I have coordinated an employee wellness program or Employee Assistance Program at a correctional institution; and/or I have provided technical advice/guidance to agency Executive Staff on nationwide employee wellness initiatives. None of the above. 4 The National Employee Engagement Administrator develops and designs employee engagement strategies and action related to the Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey and other studies, data, focus groups, and surveys. He/she leads employee engagement action teams and leverages the resources to address challenges and draw conclusions from data in logical and systematic ways.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency data and implemented changes which improved an area of employee wellness; and/or I have participated in a workgroup studying staff safety/support needs and recommended agency-wide interventions; and/or I have conducted national training on areas of employee wellness. I have analyzed work methods, procedures and production schedules and developed work plans accordingly which meet job requirements or deadlines; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices; and/or I have evaluated tasks to ensure they conform to agency standards and policy. I have updated local policies or programs related to correctional wellness based on review of policies, laws or regulations; and/or I have coordinated with local managers and supervisors in obtaining information to explore employee wellness initiatives; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. None of the above. 5 The National Employee Engagement Administrator is responsible for continuously fostering engagement and support internal communication efforts in communicating results to key stakeholders in a timely fashion. He/she creates internal communication plans to increase employee participation in workforce studies that tracks data trends to aids in the development of proactive management solutions and interventions to enhance the work culture.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have authored an article which was published in a nationally recognized correctional or employee wellness publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have designed, written and implemented a proposal for addressing needs of staff; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have written post orders or emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a formal response to findings from a program review or comparable external quality assurance review; and/or I have drafted Institution Supplements or comparable local guidance documents; and/or I have written an operational review report or comparable local quality assurance review document. I have written new or reorganized procedures or operations to management which are approved for immediate or eventual implementation; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation during an institution recall on current issues; and/or I have reviewed and updated supplements or procedure memorandums. None of the above. 6 The National Employee Engagement Administrator is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned division programs, the coordination of the mission of the branch and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provided feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. I have completed performance evaluations or performance logs; and/or I have adjusted staff duties and assignments; and/or I have directed the work of subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have solicited individual needs assessment requests for staff; and/or I have recommended an employee participate in staff mentoring program; and/or I have suggested employee pursue collateral duty assignment outside of their assigned discipline. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).