Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which activities have you performed that required planning, coordinating, and/or setting priorities? Answer to this question is required Determining resource requirements Setting agendas Developing contingency plans due to policy changes Planning and booking domestic travel Planning and booking international travel Scheduling meetings with foreign officials None of the above 2 From the following list, indicate the type(s) of office support services for which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Maintain calendars for senior level officials. Administer Time and Attendance. Arrange travel and transportation. Purchase office supplies. Locate and compile information for reports / briefings. Create spreadsheets using various office software. Edit / modify word processing documents. Maintain office organization charts, telephone directories and manuals. Establish and maintain office files and records for retrieval, reference, and storage in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules. None of the above. 3 Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with travel arrangements and authorizations. Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. Made domestic travel reservations / arrangements. Made international travel reservations / arrangements. Made hotel reservations. Made cargo reservations. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using an automated voucher system. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness. None of the above. 4 Select the one response which BEST describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management: Answer to this question is required I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g., staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.