Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) designing, developing, analyzing, managing and/or implementing a regulatory or international trade compliance program; 2) advising and updating management officials on the status of regulatory or international trade compliance issues; and 3) leading complex cases or projects. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Indicate the extent of your experience corresponding in writing with firm representatives and/or persons with technical backgrounds. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task I have drafted correspondence for review by a supervisor before transmission I have prepared correspondence that has not required supervisory review before transmission 4 Do you have experience supervising or guiding others to accomplish a completed work product? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced as a regular part of your job (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Correspondence Data summaries Investigative memoranda Policy statement and guidance Press release 6 Indicate your experience developing plans or programs Answer to this question is required I have no experience developing plans or programs I have limited experience developing plans or programs I have extensive experience developing plans or programs 7 I have extensive experience negotiating corrective actions or agreements Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please select the one response that best describes your highest level of participation on workgroups, committees, or teams. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience performing this task. I have regularly attended workgroup, committee, or team meetings. I have regularly contributed to workgroup, committee, or team discussions. I have worked with workgroups, committees, or team members to develop a product or recommend a strategy. I have led or chaired workgroups, committees, or teams. 9 I have made substantive oral presentations to the following audiences to explain a position or persuade an audience of a postion: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Supervisors Senior management Audiences including conferences, public meetings, government agencies None of the above Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 7 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 I am a current Federal CPSC employee on a career or career- conditional appointment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty 14 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 15 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).