Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have completed one full academic year of graduate level education or eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement provision and completion of a bachelor's degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 Do you posses the following Quality Ranking Factors?&nbsp; A graduate student in clinical or counseling psychology program that is accredited by the American Psychological Association. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Note:&nbsp; The above quality ranking factors are preferred. Therefore applicants who possess the quality ranking factor(s) can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidates can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Psychology Student Trainee, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, may provide professional psychology services to inmates including individual/group treatment, screening, testing and assessment. He/she assists with the collection, monitoring, coding, entry, analysis, and interpretation of administrative, operational, training research data for Psychology Services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a supervised practicum where psychological testing was administered; and/or I have provided feedback to clients on the basis of psychological testing results; and/or I have completed Intelligence Quotient (IQ) or personality testing on adults/children. I have passed a test in a class on psychological assessment; and/or I have completed a paper in a psychological assessment class; and/or I have passed a class in a theories of personality class. I am currently studying to pass a test in a class on psychological assessment; and/or I am completing a paper in a psychological assessment class; and/or I am currently studying to pass a class in a theories of personality class. None of the above. 4 The Psychology Student Trainee, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a supervised practicum where psychological interventions were delivered; and/or I have provided empirically based psychological services on a practicum; and/or I have completed groups or individual treatment with adults/children. I am studying for a test in a class on psychological interventions or psychotherapy; and/or I am completing a paper in a psychological services theories or techniques course; and/or I am studying to pass a test in an approach to intervention class. I have passed a test in a class on psychological interventions or psychotherapy; and/or I have completed a paper in a psychological services theories or techniques course; and/or I have passed a class in an approach to intervention class. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Student Trainee is oriented toward furthering his/her professional development. He/she responds to inquiries from individuals throughout all levels of the organization, as well as the general public. He/she must be able to communicate professionally and must be able to answer inquires in a clear and consistent manner with persons from diverse backgrounds. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral report as a final exam; and/or I have presented a paper to a graduate class; and/or I have presented a didactic session to the public on psychology principles. I have completed a college level public speaking course; and/or I have completed a debate contest; and/or I have completed a public speaking activity in the community. I have participated in scholarly panel discussion at a psychology conference; and/or I have presented a scientific poster at a psychology conference; and/or I have delivered a scientific speech at a psychology conference. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).