Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with performing object-level conservation surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to perform object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs. I am familiar with how to perform object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs, but do not have experience performing them. I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (under supervision). I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (independently). I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (independently and I have supervised others performing this work). 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with conservation treatment? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to perform conservation treatment on cultural objects. I am familiar with how to perform conservation treatment on cultural objects, but do not have experience performing treatment. I have performed conservation treatment on cultural objects (under supervision). I have performed conservation treatment on cultural objects (independently). I have performed conservation treatment on cultural objects (independently and I have supervised others performing treatment). 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with preparing conservation treatment proposals and reports? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to prepare conservation treatment proposals and reports for cultural objects that include text and photographic images. I am familiar with how to prepare conservation treatment proposals and reports for cultural objects that include text and photographic images, but do not have experience preparing them. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for cultural objects that include text and photographic images, under supervision. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for cultural objects that include text and photographic images, independently. I have prepared conservation treatment proposals and reports for cultural objects that include text and photographic images, independently and have supervised others preparing treatment proposals and reports. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with conservation standards and procedures, including object analysis, conservation treatment, and health and safety? Answer to this question is required I do not have any education or experience with using conservation standards and procedures. I have experience applying conservation standards and procedures as a regular part of my job under close supervision. I have experience applying conservation standards and procedures as a regular part of my job independently. I have overseen and advised others in applying conservation standards and procedures as a regular part of my job. I have managed a conservation lab ensuring all conservation standards and procedures are followed. I have developed and improved conservation standards and procedures following best practices. 7 What best describes your work experience in planning and managing schedules and budgets for complex projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing budgets, project plans or schedules for complex projects. I have received education or training in developing budgets, project plans or schedules for complex projects but have not had the opportunity to perform this task on the job. I have experience in developing budgets, project plans or schedules for complex projects but under close supervision or direction of a senior employee or supervisor. I have experience in developing budgets, project plans or schedules for complex projects and have done so with minimal direction and with only periodic review and oversight from a senior employee or supervisor. I have experience leading the development of budgets, project plans or schedules for complex projects and have supervised others doing this work. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.