Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please select the choice that matches your educational background. Answer to this question is required I expect to receive a degree in the field of Engineering or Science from an accredited university or college during the 2025-2026 academic year. I do not have nor do I expect to receive a degree in the field of Engineering or Physical Science from an accredited university or college during the academic year. 2 Please confirm the engineering or physical science degree that will be conferred during the 2025-2026 academic year.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required GG-07: I will be completing my Bachelor's degree in or related to an Engineering or Physical Science discipline during the 2025-2026 academic year. GG-09: I will be completing my Master's degree in or related to an Engineering or Physical Science discipline during the 2025-2026 academic year. GG-11: I will be completing my Doctoral degree in or related to an Engineering or Physical Science discipline during the 2025-2026 academic year. None of the above. 3 What is the official title of your academic degree in the field of Engineering or Physical Science that you expect to obtain by June 2026? Answer to this question is required Aquatic Biology Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics Engineering Environmental Engineering Environmental Science Fire Protection Engineering Geology Geophysics Geotechnical Engineering Health Physics (including concentrations in Radiation Biology, Waste Management, Environmental Health, Risk Communication, Radiation Chemistry, Radiation Dosimetry, Radiation Ecology, Epidemiology, Medical Physics, Radiation Oncology/Technology) Hydrology Industrial Engineering (Human Factors) Materials Science/Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Engineering Meteorology Nuclear/Radiological Engineering Physics Radiological Sciences Seismology Structural Engineering Systems Engineering Welding Engineering Other 4 What is your cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA)? Applicants are responsible for converting to a 4.0 scale if another is used. Answer to this question is required on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 3.3 to 4.0 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 2.95 to 3.29 on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is below 2.95, BUT the GPA in my major is 3.5 or above on a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is below 2.95, AND the GPA in my major is below 3.5 none of the above 5 Please indicate the response that most accurately describes your work experience since entering college. Answer to this question is required I have worked directly for the NRC in a technical position (e.g., Summer-hire, Cooperative Education Student, etc.) I have technical work experience related to my area of study (e.g., Engineering or Physical Science). I have no technical work experience, BUT I have non-technical work experience (e.g., retail sales, etc.) I do not have any work experience. 6 Please select the response that most accurately describes your academic honors, awards and/or extracurricular activities. Answer to this question is required I have received multiple academic awards and/or scholarships from professional or technical organizations, associations, companies, etc. (e.g., Dean's List, academic scholarships, induction into the Honor Society, etc.) I held a leadership role in a professional or technical society (e.g., holding an office, chairing a society-sponsored function, etc.) I am an active member in multiple professional or technical societies (e.g., ANS, IEEE, ASME, SHPE, NSBE, SWE, etc.) I have received one academic award or one scholarship from a professional or technical organization, association, etc. I am an active member of one professional or technical society. I am an active member of one professional or technical society, AND I have received at least one academic award or scholarship from a professional or technical organization, association, etc. I have not received any academic awards, and am not a member of any professional or technical society. 7 Are you currently participating in the NRC's Student Cooperative Education Program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you received a scholarship or fellowship through an NRC grant funded program Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 What school are you attending (or graduated from) with your degree in engineering or physical science? Answer to this question is required Alabama A&M University Bowie State University Case Western Reserve University City College of New York / City University of New York (CCNY/CUNY) Clark Atlanta University Clemson University Florida International University Florida Memorial University Fort Lewis College Fort Valley State University Georgia Institute of Technology Grambling State University Hampton University Howard University Idaho State University Louisiana State University Massachusetts Institute of Technology Missouri University of Science and Technology Morehouse College Morgan State University New Mexico State University North Carolina A&T State University North Carolina State University Northeastern State University Ohio State University Oregon State University Pennsylvania State University Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico Purdue University Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute South Carolina State University Southern University Spelman College Texas A&M University-College Station Texas A&M University-Kingsville Thomas Edison State University Tuskegee University Universidad Ana G. Mendez University of California-Berkeley University of Florida University of Houston-Downtown University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign University of Maryland-Baltimore County University of Maryland-College Park University of Maryland-Global Campus University of Massachusetts-Lowell University of Michigan University of Missouri-Columbia University of Nevada-Las Vegas University of Nevada-Reno University of New Mexico University of North Carolina-Pembroke University of Pittsburgh University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez University of Tennessee University of Texas-Austin University of Texas-El Paso University of Texas-Permian Basin University of Texas-San Antonio University of Wisconsin-Madison Utah State University Virginia Commonwealth University Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Western Carolina University Other 10 How did you first hear about this job opportunity at the NRC? Answer to this question is required NRC Website USAJOBS.gov Online job search website (excluding USAJOBS.gov) Online Banner Ad Social Media (ex. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter) Magazine or newspaper advertisement Career Fair Exhibit Veteran's Organization Professional meeting Current NRC employee Professor or Colleague Friend or relative Other 11 If a current NRC employee informed you of this position or encouraged you to apply, please provide their name in the space provided. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Per OPM guidance dated May 29, 2025, responses to the following four narrative questions are requested. These narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 12 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).