Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following type(s) of teams have you organized and lead? Answer to this question is required Multi-Organizational Multi-Disciplinary / Cross Functional Multi-Agency Within a Work Group None of the Above 2 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government Officials Senior Corporate Officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government Organizations Private Industry Technical Experts Professional Organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) Media Representatives Foreign Government Officials General Public None of the Above 3 Which management and supervision tasks do you have experience performing on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Setting performance measures, standards, expectations, and deadlines Planning work assignments and schedules Assigning tasks and responsibilities Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and verifying timeliness Resolving conflicts, differences, and problems Reporting progress to senior management Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Providing career development opportunities Administering disciplinary actions Resolving time and attendance issues None of the above 4 Which of the following types of estimates / analyses have you preformed? Answer to this question is required Architectural Structural Civil Mechanical Electrical Telecommunications Plumbing Life cycle cost Risk analysis Value engineering Construction change orders Technical Services (architectural / engineering) Maintenance Services Industrial controls and building automation None of the above 5 Which statement(s) describe the basis for the cost estimates you have assisted with? Answer to this question is required Estimates based on planning documents Estimates based on incomplete plans and initial specifications Estimates based on final plans and specifications Contract change orders or negotiations Market conditions and construction industry trends None of the above 6 Which statement BEST describes your experience developing cost estimates? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed cost estimates for facilities / services overseas. I have independently developed cost estimates for domestic facilities / services. I have provided information for inclusion in cost estimates for facilities / services overseas. I have provided information for inclusion in domestic facilities / services cost estimates. I have no experience related to facilities / services cost estimates. 7 Which types of projects have you solved complex problems for (i.e., problems significantly impacting the project cost or timeline)? Answer to this question is required Construction projects Manufacturing projects Maintenance projects Design projects Organizational processes None of the above 8 Select the choice that BEST describes your highest level of experience analyzing architectural drawings, plans, designs, specifications, and exhibits for compliance with established codes and regulations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience performing a technical review / evaluation of a contractor proposal in relation to cost estimating? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task as part of a group under close supervision. I have performed this task independently and usually without review by supervisor or manager. This task has been a major part of my job and others have consulted me for assistance based on my experience. 10 From the list below, identify the audiences for which you have made oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations General public Technical experts Academia Professional organizations None of the above 11 Indicate the contract values with which you have experience managing. Answer to this question is required Small (less than $500,000) Medium (between $500,000 and $1,000,000) Large (between $1,000,000 and $3,000,000) Very large (greater than $3,000,000) None of the above 12 Which of the following ranges BEST describes the scale of the estimates you developed? Answer to this question is required Very large (Above $100 million) Large ($50 million to $100 million) Medium ($10 to $50 million) Small (below $10 million) None of the above Grade: 15 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 2 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-15 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants MUST meet one of the below listed basic qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education OR combination of education and experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A) I have completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in Architecture or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, AND (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. B) I have a degree in architectural engineering and my completed course work in architectural engineering provided knowledge, skills, and abilities (covering function, aesthetics, site, structure, economics, mechanical-electrical, and other engineering problems related to the design and construction of buildings primarily intended to house human beings) substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in Choice A above. C) I have college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings, AND I have 1 year of experience in an architect`s office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of experience is required. D) I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 5 Based on your review of the basic qualifications listed ABOVE, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required A B C D Note: All applicants WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you will lose consideration for this position. 6 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized architectural experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 7 Please indicate the position title(s), organization, and dates of employment where you acquired the necessary specialized experience and/or the dates, name of the college / univeristy, and major field of study where you acquired the educational requirements. (Do not paste your resume here.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.