Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 2 This vacancy requires that candidates possess formal education and/or specialized experience in one or more the subject areas listed.&nbsp; Failure to provide college transcripts or documented experienced in your application package will result in you being removed from further consideration.&nbsp;&nbsp; Please indicate among the listing below, which knowledge area(s) that you possess, either formal education as evidenced by degree/certificate or at least two or more years of specialized experience. Answer to this question is required Engineering Physical Sciences Nuclear Security Physical Security Intelligence Personnel Security Accounting/Finance Misconduct Investigations Contract Fraud Program Fraud OIG Hotline Program Cyber Crimes 3 Based on your selections above, please provide a brief description of your qualifying education and/or specialized experience. Include degree(s), field of study, institution(s), and/or specific duties and length of experience that demonstrate your qualifications in the selected knowledge area(s). Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp;&nbsp; 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).