Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not have 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes you knowledge of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and or post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services? Answer to this question is required I do not have this knowledge My knowledge of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and or post award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services comes from on the job or formal training. My work requires that I use my knowledge of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services on a daily basis. My work requires that I use my knowledge of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and or post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services on a daily basis. I am normally the person tasked with providing advice and insight to others in my office because of my strength in this area. 3 Choose the example(s) of specialized experience that best reflects your work experience. Choose all that apply: Answer to this question is required Drawing conclusions and making recommendations by analyzing facts and conditions and making comparisons of price, discounts, delivery dates or handling charges. Reading and interpreting procurement regulations and technical material, and translating the guidance into specific actions. Soliciting bids to procure a variety of goods and services. Performing basic analysis for firm fixed-price or similar contracts. Performing recurring assignments involving use of formal advertising and negotiation methods. Analyzing contract provisions and recommending termination or modification of purchase orders or contracts. Investigating complaints by reconstructing and reconciling incomplete information. Negotiating new contracts due to changes in scope of work. Planning and carrying out pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Serving as contract specialist responsible for all aspects of a contract from initiation to recommendation of award. Administering a variety of contracts of different types which contain specific terms and conditions. Administering phases of complex contracts such as cost with incentives. Conducting pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions for a variety of specialized equipment, services, exhibition design/fabrication, construction, building restoration or renovations, architectural and engineering studies/design. Performing price analysis of practices related to increased material, labor, or transportation costs. Planning and conducting negotiations on price and other issues. Controlling and monitoring the performance of the prime contractor and a large number of subcontractors. Coordinating with the using organization on programming and expenditure of funds for the contract, modifications or engineering changes, and spare parts provisioning plans to ensure that the needs and requirements of each organization is satisfied. Conducting pre-award and post-award functions involving highly specialized procurements. Serving as advisor to program officials in procurement planning meetings. Serving as lead negotiator and planning negotiation strategy. Being responsible for contract administration. Participating in the development of policy as a representative on task groups. 4 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience preparing financial tracking documents? Answer to this question is required I have prepared cash transmittal documents (such as bank deposit slips or cash receipt vouchers) to include entering account numbers or codes. I have prepared electronic funds transfers or wire payment instructions to include entering account numbers or codes. I have prepared inter-agency or intra-organization fund transfer documents to include entering account numbers or codes. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed to identify and reconcile financial discrepancies? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have compared individual transaction documents to a computer log I have compared corporate or organizational records to bank statements I have compared office or organizational records to a central accounting system I have identified discrepancies between financial systems and notified others to investigate and resolve I have identified and resolved discrepancies myself I have resolved discrepancies by correcting data entry errors in my own records I have resolved discrepancies due to data entry errors in a bank or central accounting system I have resolved discrepancies due to charges made to the wrong fund or department I have resolved discrepancies due to duplicate obligations I have resolved discrepancies due to duplicate invoices and payments I have resolved discrepancies due to problems with vendor records I have resolved discrepancies due to calculation errors in overhead or processing fees None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in identifying needs or problems and determining or recommending appropriate action? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in identifying needs or problems and determining or recommending appropriate action. I have completed training in identifying needs or problems and determining or recommending appropriate action but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have identified needs or problems and determined or recommended appropriate action on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have identified needs or problems and determined or recommended appropriate action as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have identified needs or problems and determined or recommended appropriate action as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate clearly and concisely? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.