Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience working &nbsp; with network installations, upgrades, modifications, and repair of hardware and software. (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience working in the IT Network field as an expert performing upgrades, installations, troubleshooting, repairing hardware and software, and complying with Standards. I have experience assisting in an assigned IT Network functional area. I have formal education, training, and certification. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of and experience with new media and digital storytelling methods, tools, and technologies? Answer to this question is required I have used existing (out-of-the box) digital platforms to craft and share stories online. I have contributed to the development of new interactive platforms and tools for digital storytelling. I have contributed to the creation and design of data visualizations. I have contributed to the development of multimedia storytelling and/or immersive experiences for online audiences. I have developed and/or contributed to digital humanities projects or programs. I have developed and/or contributed digital education resources or tools. I have a strong understanding of emerging interactive and new media technologies. I have a foundation in theory and methods of digital storytelling. I have offered training on tools, technologies, and methodologies related to digital storytelling, introducing them to new audiences. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience building and maintaining Drupal-based websites? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in building Drupal websites, but have not used this on the job. I have built or maintained Drupal-based websites on the job under close supervision. I have built, published and maintained Drupal-based websites as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have built, published and maintained production Drupal-based websites using core, contributed and custom modules as a regular part of the job. I have supervised the building, publication and maintenance of production Drupal-based websites and custom module development and/or I have trained others to accomplish these tasks and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks. 5 Which of the following experiences do you have related to Drupal web development and the management of custom websites and web applications? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes coding in PHP & JavaScript. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes web design. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes website configuration. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes automated deployments. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes accessibility testing and remediation I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes remediating web and mobile threats. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes addressing PII, COPA concerns. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes performing quality assurance testing. None of the Above 6 Which of the following best describes your level of experience with website development projects using a variety of application languages and OS platforms? Answer to this question is required I have completed more than 5 large-scale production website development projects using a variety of application languages and protocols and on multiple OS platforms including MS SharePoint, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe ColdFusion, and Drupal. I have completed 3 or less production website development projects using a variety of application languages and protocols and on multiple OS platforms including MS SharePoint and Adobe Dreamweaver. I have completed at least 1 web development projects using only 1 application language and protocol and only on a limited number of OS platforms. I have completed less than 1 web development projects using only 1 or less than 1 application language and protocol and only on a limited number of OS platforms. I have not had experience in performing this task. 7 Which of the following describes your experience with search engine optimization (SEO) and user experience (UX) design (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience in implementing optimization and usability techniques website(s) as a regular part of my job. I have participated in optimization techniques and usability studies, testing and analysis and have performed these tasks on the job (under close supervision). I have education and training in optimization techniques and usability studies but have not yet performed the tasks on the job. I have no education, training or experience in either optimization techniques or usability studies. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.