Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise and lead a workforce of excellence. Supervised a workforce. Demonstrated proficiency in the following: 1) Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time &amp; resources to accomplish goals; 2) Solved problems by anticipating &amp; analyzing facts to reach a conclusion; 3) Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity &amp; holding staff accountable; 4) Ensured quality control by monitoring integrity of work performed; 5) Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs &amp; capabilities of staff and handling issues with tact; 6) Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity and considering others ideas; 7) Implemented improvement of current processes and work quality through innovation &amp; continuous development; 8) Motivated &amp; gave direction with constructive feedback &amp; coaching; and 9) Created a work environment that fosters creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least FIVE (5) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of Federal Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), U.S. Standard General Ledger (USSGL), and other Accounting Industry Regulations.** Applied the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of finance/accounting in the Federal sector in order to perform financial accounting and reporting functions. This included performing complex accounting assignments involving the application of U.S. Standard General Ledger in the preparation, analysis and interpretation of Federal financial statements, notes and other accounting reports such as: Government Treasury Account Symbol (GTAS), Treasury Standard Forms (i.e, SF-224, TROR), and Government Wide Financial Report System (GFRS). Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by others to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job in a lead role. I am regularly the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to capture, analyze, estimate, and forecast financial management and related cost data.** Has an understanding of Treasury&rsquo;s United States Standard General Ledger (USSGL) and can conceptualize and explain accounting configurations, standards and concepts within a financial system. Provided analysis and cost estimates and forecasts of financial management data derived from authoritative accounting records and industry and market sources, drawing conclusions, inferences and making recommendations. Answer to this question is required Established and utilized best practice and standard financial methodologies, including USSGL, to capture, and analyze financial management, accounting, and related cost data. Made authoritative judgments concerning the treatment of budgetary/financial data and decided which analytical methods, including cost accounting and cost allocation methodologies, would be applied, and when and where to apply them. Prepared financial reports and cost projections. Compiled complex program-related narrative/statistical data from authoritative financial systems, industry and market sources. Used cost analysis techniques to forecast and estimate costs, and provided advice and recommendations to senior managers. Established and utilized best practice and standard financial methodologies, including USSGL, to capture and analyze financial management, accounting, and related cost data. Made authoritative judgments concerning the treatment of budgetary/financial data and decided which analytical methods would be applied, and when and where to apply them. Prepared financial reports, compiled specialized program-related narrative/statistical data from authoritative financial systems, and used cost analysis techniques to solve financial problems. Prepared financial reports, compiled specialized program-related narrative/statistical data from a variety of sources, and used financial analysis techniques to solve financial problems. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Authored clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable complex and specialized documents related to the work of the position, such as: 1) performance documentation, 2) budget documentation, 3) financial statements, 4) annual reports, 5) statements of work, 6) strategic planning and forecasting documents, and 7) standard operating procedures. This includes targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant and/or controversial organization-wide issues. Independently wrote at least FIVE of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant and/or controversial organization-wide issues. Independently wrote FOUR of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant and/or controversial organization-wide issues. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services. Communicated and interacted with others to explain information clearly and concisely and to provide consultation to others on financial and supervisory management issues. Answer to this question is required Interacted and communicated with subject matter experts, senior management and staff concerning financial management issues including interpretation and guidance of regulatory and administrative requirements to formulate, justify, defend, execute, evaluate and report on the use of funds. Routinely served as a liaison for the organization with internal and external organizations on financial management matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, served as an authoritative source of information and consultation for other organization, managers and staff concerning financial management activities. Interacted and communicated with subject matter experts, management and staff concerning financial management issues including interpretation and guidance of regulatory and administrative requirements to formulate, justify, defend, execute, evaluate and report on the use of funds. Served as a liaison for the organization on financial matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented financial management information to other organizations, management, and staff. Interacted and communicated with a range of individuals, including management and staff concerning financial management issues including interpretation and guidance of regulatory and administrative requirements to formulate, justify, defend, execute, evaluate and report on the use of funds. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).