Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Assistant performs support services for the Consolidated Processing Unit staff. He/she must prepare, and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered employment verification requests and/or letters; and/or I have composed selection notification letters to job applicants; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower-level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. I have written correspondence requesting a wavier for use of non-mandatory source office equipment; and/or I have written recommendations for solutions to vendors; and/or I have responded in writing via e-mails to inquiries from field offices; and/or I have prepared correspondence explaining the agency’s rules, regulations or procedures; and/or I have responded to an extensive information request; and/or I have revised a position description; and/or I have written a newsletter article about a new, unique one of a kind personnel program (such as Student Loan Repayment or worker trainee initiative). I have composed a vacancy announcement; and/or I have composed a memorandum for management explaining a pay issue to an employee; and/or I have written informational articles on pay entitlements, health benefits, Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), or other significant personnel program; and/or I have summarized inventory data in a report; and/or I have prepared grammatical free memoranda for supervisory signature; and/or I have prepared a detailed report explaining potential problems in department operations which included recommendations for further consideration/implementation. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Assistant conveys technical and non-technical employee services information to his/her supervisor, management, employees, job applicants, the general public, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent Human Resource information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained pay setting procedures; and/or I have explained procedures and calculations for military deposits; and/or I have explained entitlement to premium pay to timekeepers; and/or I have responded to employees and telephone callers interested in obtaining information; and/or I have relayed information regarding specific programs/issues to staff. I have questioned applicants to assess their employment eligibility; and/or I have explained job qualifications to employees; and/or I have given an oral presentation during a staff meeting conveying recent changes to a benefit program; and/or I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group in the work unit. I have researched and verbally responded to requests for information from staff, agency personnel, or the public; and/or I have reduced the necessity of contact with staff members by providing assistance to callers and visitors on non-routine issues; and/or I have explained agency policies to newly hired employees; and/or I have advised management in human resource program changes such as benefits and their impact on staff and potential applicants; and/or I have made oral presentations during human resource training seminars; and/or I have screened potential applicants for basic employment eligibility and job qualifications. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Assistant plans and organizes work, efficiently utilizing time and available resources. He/she must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and rearrange priorities when workload dictates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained fellow employees on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work assignments; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have assisted individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have monitored, adjusted, and distributed the workload for staff, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have ensured any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks, such as researching various sites for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants, coordinating training for participants, and preparing conference material/information, etc.; and/or I have established a new filing systems or other data collection system. I have coordinated work with other subdivisions for special projects; and/or I have researched various software/hardware for the office and made a selection which was approved by supervisor; and/or I have developed a database that tracked projects/reports/papers or other tasks, ensuring staff met all timelines and due dates. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Assistant must be able to research, retrieve, review, and process various information pertaining to program area service operations. He/she must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed basic software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created basic charts and graphs; and/or I have created basic tables using a computer program; and/or I have collected required data from the computer according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action. I have enhanced office operations by establishing a computerized tracking system; and/or I have provided assistance to staff/supervisor on the use of a new software system for inventory/accounting data; and/or I have developed presentations and graphics using software, such as Excel, Access, and PowerPoint; and/or I have utilized Internet to retrieve information, news releases, updates and related information; and/or I have used a database to track information. I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence on the computer; and/or I have created a database to store records; and/or I have generated non-standardized documents using Word; and/or I have maintained financial data on a software program; and/or I have prepared automated time and attendance records. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Assistant must establish and maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to the Consolidated Processing Unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a new purge schedule for files and records; and/or I have maintained the identification card log; and/or I have updated checklists to ensure compliance after policy and/or procedural changes; and/or I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor’s use. I have developed forms for completing Human Resource related work, such as evaluative forms for conducting training; and/or I have developed a new tracking system regarding administrative responsibilities; and/or I have provided information regarding multi-disciplined programs, such as program review, review committees, or focus groups; and/or I have developed/designed several filing systems for a newly established office; and/or I have researched and retrieved information for replies to technical issues; and/or I have compiled and prepared budget justifications; and/or I have researched and summarized material on issues for supervisor or other interested parties. I have developed and implemented a reference file containing duties to assist in training others; and/or I have developed a tracking system for performance appraisals or other suspense items; and/or I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence. None of the above. 7 Administrative Assistant must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of the Consolidated Processing Unit, along with program specific guidelines and requirements. He/she ensures time and attendance data are properly processed and maintain Time and Attendance Files in accordance with regulations. He/she also responds to routine questions concerning unit policies and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched pay regulations to determine pay entitlements; and/or I have explained basic employment eligibility to an outside applicant; and/or I have calculated extensive back pay entitlement for an employee; and/or I have applied necessary changes in procedures as indicated by company policy; and/or I have explained policy and procedures to inmates, staff, or others. I have explained hiring authorities to new employees; and/or I have, upon a manager’s request, assisted in interpreting a sick leave audit for an employee; and/or I have explained a service computation date calculation to an employee; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. I have used the Accounting Manual to determine correct procedures for completing a purchase order; and/or I have applied necessary changes in procedures, as indicated in an Operations Memoranda; and/or I have adhered to federal policy when determining reporting requirements deadlines/formats; and/or I have updated internal procedures, based on changes to national policy; and/or I have evaluated an employee grievance against policy and national labor agreement; and/or I have processed complex personnel actions; and/or I have participated as a subject matter expert in program review. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).