Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 Specialized Experienc e: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-15 grade level in the private sector planning and overseeing actuarial work as it relates to the calculation of individual benefits, zone status certifications, unpaid minimum funding contributions, and plan termination liabilities. Reviewing or preparing Special Financial Assistance applications from financially distressed pension plans. Examples include : supervising actuaries who perform actuarial calculations for benefit plans, calculating unpaid employer contributions or solvency projections, calculating minimum funding requirements; and reviewing actuaries' calculations to determine their accuracy and resolve any related discrepancies &nbsp; 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15&nbsp;grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-15 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No In order to qualify for actuarial positions, applicants must meet the following education qualification requirement: A bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. 2 Do you meet the education requirement for this position as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 &nbsp; From the following options related to ability to implement strategic and operational plans and allocate resources, including budgeting and personnel, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience managing staff, financial, and contractor resources experience providing employee supervision/leadership and programmatic direction regarding actuarial matters experience supervising or managing actuaries within the government, private pension community, benefit industry, or insurance industry experience making decisions on policies, priorities, organization, and assignment of work experience communicating and executing an organizational vision and motivating employees none of the above 4 From the following opti ons related to skill in developing programs, structures, and procedures to implement new or revised policies and procedures, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or trainin g. Answer to this question is required experience overseeing the development of organization policy related to, but not limited to, insurance programs, retirement plans, financial policies, and actuarial policies experience interpreting and analyzing pension plans or other employee benefits plans experience establishing organizational goals, performance metrics and cascading individual responsibilities experience approving and enforcing policies and procedures for actuarial development and data analysis experience making recommendations to executive leadership on program developments and enhancements. none of the above 5 From th e following options related to skill in planning, executing, and evaluating operational and actuarial functions , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience communicating to leadership and various types of organizations of various sizes experience developing strategies to provide quality actuarial services experience working with management and executives to identify risks and provide mitigation plans experience briefing executives on actuarial reports and analyses experience developing strategies to provide high quality and timely actuarial services none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).