Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have completed an Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- photography, radio or television production, motion picture production, or other fields related to the position. I have specialized experience that provided me with knowledge of work directly related to the production aspects of the field(s) associated with the position being filled. I do not have the education and/or experience for the position. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience planning media for exhibitions in a museum or art gallery? Answer to this question is required Led a team planning media for exhibitions in a museum or art gallery. Worked on a team with people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or art gallery. Planned a media piece for an exhibition in a museum or art gallery. Assisted people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or art gallery. Planned a media piece for an exhibit. 4 Which of the following procurement and contracting functions have you performed (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have applied knowledge of procurement and contracting procedures. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have evaluated the qualifications of vendors. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have negotiated contract terms or pricing. I have served as a Contracting Officer's technical Representative (COTR) to ensure that contract terms and requirements are met. I have received education or training on procurement policies, procedures and techniques, but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, development, and deployment. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning, and development. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management on discussions related to exhibition and project planning. I have experience serving as a liaison between Department Heads, project representatives, and management. I have experience serving as a liaison. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives and ensuring that all exhibition, interpretation, and media components are addressed? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives and ensuring that all exhibition, interpretation, and media components are addressed. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets, and routing pertinent information to department heads and project representatives. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents, and tracking production milestone schedules and spreadsheets. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing and maintaining exhibition planning documents. I have experience managing exhibition projects for the museum (or similar setting) including preparing exhibition planning documents. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center? (Check All that Apply) Answer to this question is required Led a team planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. Worked on a team with people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. Planned a media piece for an exhibition in a museum or science center. Assisted people planning media for exhibitions in a history museum or science center. Planned a media piece for an exhibit. Never planned media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. 8 How recently have you planned media for exhibitions in a museum or science center? Answer to this question is required I am currently leading a team planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. I led a team planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center in the last 5 years. I led a team planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center before 5 years ago. I am currently working on a team with people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. I have worked on a team with people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center in the last 5 years. I have worked on a team with people planning media for exhibitions in a museum or science center before 5 years ago. I have never planned media for exhibitions in a museum or science center. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing support of audiovisual hardware and software? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I setup, configure and test computer hardware with audiovisual peripherals attached. I support, troubleshoot and maintain computer hardware with audiovisual peripherals attached. I setup and maintain video-teleconferencing equipment, establish a network connection and connect to a remote site. I troubleshoot video-teleconferencing equipment when a network connection cannot be established. I setup and operate webcasting sessions. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following best describes your years of experience with audio, video and projection equipment? Answer to this question is required I possess 10 or more years of experience operating audio, video and projection equipment. I possess 5 or more years of experience operating audio, video and projection equipment. I possess 15 or more years of experience operating audio, video and projection equipment. I possess no experience operating audio, video and projection equipment. 11 Which of the following exhibit equipment tasks have you performed as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have specified, assembled, installed, and am familiar with designations for exhibit interactive components, AV equipment, projectors, and computers. I have specified and installed lamps and light sources used in various types of AV projectors and I am familiar with current lamp and light source characteristics and specifications. I am familiar with the specifications and performance characteristics for various types of computer interactive equipment and AV component parts. I do not have experience with these tasks or types of equipment. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and selecting appropriate hardware and software needed for audio and video production following established organization processes and procedures. (Select one answer) Answer to this question is required I have experience performing this task as a regular part of my job, independently, often without review from a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience performing this task as a regular part of my job under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.