Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 [5510] Do you currently possess or can you obtain a valid state issued driver`s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 2 [9743] Do you have a United States Coast Guard boat operator's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [55773] Select the response that best describes your work experience in a marine transportation environment? Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have worked in a marine environment, such as in Lock Operations at the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or with the cruise industry, where I was exposed to and had hands-on work experience with various aspects of marine transportation to include handling lines, handling radio communications and/or held a quarter master type position. I have worked in another related marine environment where I have experience handling lines and handling radio communications and/or held a quarter master type position. I have no hands-on experience in a marine environment, but have been exposed to the aspects of marine transportation through personal or other professional experiences None of the above. 4 [55777] Select the response that best describes the level of supervision you would need to operate watercraft. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I require regular and frequent supervision, instruction and training to operate boats/vessels. I can operate boats/vessels with limited to some supervision, instruction and or training. I can operate boats/vessels under 35 feet with little to no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training at boats/vessels longer than 35 feet. I can operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 60 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 120 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to and exceeding 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. 5 [55775] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill and experience with routine boat engine maintenance and/or repairs on small craft vessels. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through work activities associated with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through other work experience. I have no experience in this area, either hands-on or through observation. 6 [55776] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill, and ability with the maintenance and repair of fixed and floating aids to navigation. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience maintaining, repairing, and handling a variety of aids to navigation, obtained through work activities with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have knowledge and experience maintaining, repairing, and handling aids to navigation; obtained through other work experience. I have no experience working with aids to navigation. 7 [55784] Select the type(s) of water craft towing in which you have experience. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Ship assist Multiple Barge Units Single Barge Crane Barge Disabled vessels or other disabled watercraft None of the above 8 [55781] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill, and experience in barge deck operations, such as, for buoy retrieval, work projects, barge winch operation. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through work activities on the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway System. I have hands-on knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through other work activities not associated with the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway System, i.e. United States Coast Guard experience off the Atlantic Coast or a river barge company on the Mississippi River. I have some knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through reading and/or observation. I have no experience in this area. 9 [55788] Select the response(s) that describe your ability to read and interpret marine related documents. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Manufacturer's Specifications and Instructions Navigation charts Drawings Blueprints Work Orders and Change Orders Supply and Production Manuals Regulations Manuals None of the above 10 [55789] Select the response that best describes your knowledge using navigation and communication equipment. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have no experience using navigation and communication equipment. I have training in the use of navigation and/or communication equipment, but have little to no practical experience using the equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication AND navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision as a regular and recurring part of my duties. I am very comfortable and experienced using communication and navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision and am often looked to for guidance or asked to train others on the use of both types of equipment. 11 [55791] Select the statement that most accurately describes your ability to use computers. Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have never used a computer nor computerized controls. I have had some computer training, but limited practical use; or, I infrequently use a personal computer (e.g. only to send and receive e-mail); or, I infrequently use computerized controls at work from a touch screen or mouse (e.g. automated keyless entry system). I have used a computer on a regular basis at home or work and have experience entering data. I have used computers routinely at home and/or at work and have experience entering data, but I have not or I have infrequently used computerized controls to operate equipment. I have used computerized controls from a keyboard or mouse to operate equipment in performing work assignments on a regular basis, but have little to no practical experience on the computer. In addition to having used computers routinely at home and/or at work, I have used computerized controls from a keyboard or mouse to operate equipment in performing work assignments on a regular basis. Grade: 10 [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [9743] Do you have a United States Coast Guard boat operator's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [55773] Select the response that best describes your work experience in a marine transportation environment? Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have worked in a marine environment, such as in Lock Operations at the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or with the cruise industry, where I was exposed to and had hands-on work experience with various aspects of marine transportation to include handling lines, handling radio communications and/or held a quarter master type position. I have worked in another related marine environment where I have experience handling lines and handling radio communications and/or held a quarter master type position. I have no hands-on experience in a marine environment, but have been exposed to the aspects of marine transportation through personal or other professional experiences None of the above. 3 [55777] Select the response that best describes the level of supervision you would need to operate watercraft. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I require regular and frequent supervision, instruction and training to operate boats/vessels. I can operate boats/vessels with limited to some supervision, instruction and or training. I can operate boats/vessels under 35 feet with little to no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training at boats/vessels longer than 35 feet. I can operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 60 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 120 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to and exceeding 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. 4 [55775] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill and experience with routine boat engine maintenance and/or repairs on small craft vessels. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through work activities associated with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have knowledge and experience with boat engine maintenance and repair obtained through other work experience. I have no experience in this area, either hands-on or through observation. 5 [55776] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill, and ability with the maintenance and repair of fixed and floating aids to navigation. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience maintaining, repairing, and handling a variety of aids to navigation, obtained through work activities with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have knowledge and experience maintaining, repairing, and handling aids to navigation; obtained through other work experience. I have no experience working with aids to navigation. 6 [55786] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in using marine shipboard deck and cargo winches and capstans. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required In addition to being able to energize and start up and operate marine shipboard and cargo winches and capstans independently, I provide technical directions and/or training to lower-level workers on the operation of them. I am able to energize, start up, operate and repair marine shipboard and cargo winches and capstans, independently, without supervision. I am able to energize and start up marine shipboard and cargo winches and capstans, independently, without supervision, but require supervision while repairing or troubleshooting them. I am able to energize and start up marine shipboard and cargo winches and capstans and am able to troubleshoot and repair with general supervision. I am able to energize and start up and operate marine shipboard and cargo winches and capstans only under close supervision. None of the above 7 [55787] Select the response that best describes your knowledge and experience with using and maintaining ropes, wires and cables, slings and rigging. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge or experience in this area, obtained from working in a construction or marine environment. I have extensive knowledge and experience working in this area in a construction environment (cranes, heavy equipment). I have extensive knowledge and experience working in this area in a marine environment. I have the ability to make a variety of knots, splices, and slings used in moving equipment and securing vessels. None of the above 8 [55783] Select the type(s) of boats/vessels you have experience operating. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Passenger Ferry Tractor Tug Conventional tug boat Self-propelled crane barge Open boats up to 17 feet (ft) in length Recreational power boats 17 ft to 35 ft in length Crew boats 35 to 60 ft in length Crew boats 60 to 120 ft in length Crew boat in excess of 120 ft in length None of the above 9 [55784] Select the type(s) of water craft towing in which you have experience. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Ship assist Multiple Barge Units Single Barge Crane Barge Disabled vessels or other disabled watercraft None of the above 10 [55781] Select the response that best describes your knowledge, skill, and experience in barge deck operations, such as, for buoy retrieval, work projects, barge winch operation. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have hands-on knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through work activities on the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway System. I have hands-on knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through other work activities not associated with the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway System, i.e. United States Coast Guard experience off the Atlantic Coast or a river barge company on the Mississippi River. I have some knowledge and experience in deck and barge operations obtained through reading and/or observation. I have no experience in this area. 11 [55785] Select the option that best describes your knowledge of mooring, unmooring, and towing ships and other vessels. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have experience in mooring ships and/or vessels, but have little experience in unmooring ships and/or vessels. I have experience in unmooring ships and/or vessels, but have little experience in mooring ships and/or vessels. I have experience in mooring and unmooring ships and vessels and have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I am very comfortable, and experienced in mooring and unmooring ships and/or vessels. I perform this task as a regular part of my duties, and often assist others with this task. None of the above 12 [55788] Select the response(s) that describe your ability to read and interpret marine related documents. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Manufacturer's Specifications and Instructions Navigation charts Drawings Blueprints Work Orders and Change Orders Supply and Production Manuals Regulations Manuals None of the above 13 [55789] Select the response that best describes your knowledge using navigation and communication equipment. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have no experience using navigation and communication equipment. I have training in the use of navigation and/or communication equipment, but have little to no practical experience using the equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication AND navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision as a regular and recurring part of my duties. I am very comfortable and experienced using communication and navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision and am often looked to for guidance or asked to train others on the use of both types of equipment. 14 [55791] Select the statement that most accurately describes your ability to use computers. Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have never used a computer nor computerized controls. I have had some computer training, but limited practical use; or, I infrequently use a personal computer (e.g. only to send and receive e-mail); or, I infrequently use computerized controls at work from a touch screen or mouse (e.g. automated keyless entry system). I have used a computer on a regular basis at home or work and have experience entering data. I have used computers routinely at home and/or at work and have experience entering data, but I have not or I have infrequently used computerized controls to operate equipment. I have used computerized controls from a keyboard or mouse to operate equipment in performing work assignments on a regular basis, but have little to no practical experience on the computer. In addition to having used computers routinely at home and/or at work, I have used computerized controls from a keyboard or mouse to operate equipment in performing work assignments on a regular basis. Grade: All Grades 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.3 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.3 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).