Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who maintain plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R building systems. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform these building tasks. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I led employees by overseeing tasks assigned by the supervisor to make sure they were performed correctly. I supervised employees by assigning work and managing their performance. 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Acted on disciplinary matters. None of the above. 3 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience supervising a workforce covered under a collective bargaining/union agreement. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 5 Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous service requests to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which tasks have you performed to supervise the maintenance of building systems? Answer to this question is required Instructed workers on how to performance tasks Assisted workers with performing tasks Scheduled work for the shift None of the above 7 Please describe your experience managing disciplinary actions, formal complaints and grievances. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Do you have experience providing oversight to contractors who perform building maintenance work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with engineers to complete building system maintenance projects. Answer to this question is required I have not worked with engineers on building maintenance projects. I applied instructions and work specifications received from an engineer in my job. I have obtained information from engineers to correct a building maintenance problem I could not resolve. I relayed information about potential building maintenance problems to engineers for decision. 10 Select the budget planning activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Forecasted costs Performed a cost-benefit analysis Developed short and long term goals Developed Rough Order of Magnitude (ROMs) and/or Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs) Identified relevant vendors for market research Obtained and evaluated proposals and quotes for material and/or repairs. None of the above 11 Do you have the ability to multitask, prioritize tasks, and remain calm under pressure in a fast-paced environment interacting with a variety of trade shops (i.e., HVAC, Electrical, Plumbing...etc.)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following reflects your experience using Computer Assisted Facilities Management (CAFM) software? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have customized/configured a CAFM system. I have conducted training in the use of a CAFM system. I have developed portions of a CAFM system. I have developed requirements to select a CAFM system. None of the above. 13 Which communication duties have you performed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization Facilitated communications between organizational entities Briefed senior management Presented recommendations on controversial issues Provided guidance/consultation to others on professional issues None of the above 14 Please describe your communication style to clients, managers, and employees. Include in your response your style with the duties you chose in the previous question.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Select the answer that best describes your experience reviewing facility conditions. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 16 Select the answer that best describes your experience supporting building evacuations and emergencies Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 17 List and briefly describe five (5) projects you worked on in the last five (5) years. State your role on these projects and how as it relates to facility maintenance, construction, or building operations. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 Describe your experience developing process improvements for a company, organization or agency. Please include the type of situation, task at hand, the action you took and result that occurred? Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Have you interpreted and explained policies, procedures, or code/regulation updates to others? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Do you have experience ensuring that employees understand safety precautions (e.g., lock-out, tag-out, Personal Protective Equipment)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Select the activities you have performed in implementing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). Answer to this question is required I have provided input into developing SOPs. I have written SOPs. I have implemented SOPs. I have performed training to properly use SOPs. I have performed quality control for SOPs. None of the above. 22 Which mechanical reference materials have you independently read and used to troubleshoot/repair building systems? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 23 Which tasks have you performed to oversee maintenance or repairs? Answer to this question is required Surveying and inspecting facilities/machinery Determining extent of damage sustained Identifying the type of repairs required Determining the cost of repairs or maintenance None of the above 24 Have you developed maintenance plans for plumbing, pipefitting, steam or chiller systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 25 Please describe your experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 26 Which activities have you performed related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I have interpreted DDC system readings. I have changed temperatures using a DDC system. I have programmed a DDC system. I have replaced DDC control devices. I have calibrated DDC measurement devices such as temperature and humidity sensors. None of the above. 27 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing the risks associated with deferred facility/equipment maintenance? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience managing the risks associated with deferred facility/equipment maintenance. I completed education or training on this type of risk management but do not have on-the-job experience. I identified the risks of a specific deferred maintenance issue to assist others in developing a solution to manage it. I analyzed the risks of a specific deferred maintenance issue, to include impact on clients/customers. I recommended alternate solutions to manage the risks for a specific deferred maintenance issue. I prioritized the risks of multiple deferred maintenance issues and determined an approach to resolve them based on resource availability and budget projections. 28 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 28.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.