Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Institution Hearing Program Assistants perform support services for the Complex Case Management Coordinator. They prepare and submit reports, budget information, correspondence, policy materials, and other typewritten materials. They must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to informational surveys; and/or I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings, using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have answered general requests and/or letters; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. I have prepared agendas/programs for conferences as discussed in planning sessions; and/or I have assisted a staff in researching and preparing a congressional; and/or I have compiled a statistical table with paraphrased narrative explanation; and/or I have written informational updates to staff and/or prepared memoranda for supervisory signature without change. None of the above. 3 Institution Hearing Program Assistants receive and refer inquires from callers, and visitors including employees, management and the public. They respond to routine factual and technical questions and provide routine advice and assistance to employees, management and the Bureau of Immigration and Custom Enforcement about detainers, scheduled court dates, type hearings, and immigration forms, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general inquiries regarding office procedures; and/or I have responded to inmate inquiries; and/or I have greeted visitors to the department and provided general information; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff member. I have given an oral presentation during a staff meeting; and/or I have conveyed recent changes to office procedures and/or the status of a project to a small group in the work unit; and/or I have clarified Time and Attendance issues. I have researched and explained methods, regulations, or procedures to external/internal inquiries; and/or I have responded to employees and telephone callers on technical/non-technical issues; and/or I have coordinated/obtained information from individuals external to the relayed information regarding specific programs; and/or I have trained lower level subordinates in office procedures; and/or I have provided input on issues impacting the operation of the office. I have explained general regulations or procedures to the general public or employees; and/or I have advised individuals when appointments needed to be rescheduled; and/or I have advised supervisor in a timely manner of issues effecting work. None of the above. 4 Institution Hearing Program Assistants must be able to research, retrieve, review and process various information pertaining to program area service operations. They must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created charts, graphs, and tables and used merge functions; and/or I have created file directories; and/or I have assisted with creating lesson plans; and/or I have created presentations using the computer; and/or I have updated information as directed; and/or I have inputted statistical data with assistance. I have keyed time and attendance into database; and/or I have typed documents using WordPerfect; and/or I have maintained a record of all office forms using the computer; and/or I have utilized software with direction. I have used the Internet to research and obtain information about training programs and equipment; and/or I have backed up files in order to ensure data is not lost; and/or I have keyed, updated, and tracked information using a database; and/or I have retrieved information as requested. None of the above. 5 Institution Hearing Program Assistants must establish and maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to the Institution Hearing Program and maintain Operation/Program Review or comparable internal/external audits files for the Complex Case Management Coordinator. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented a reference of daily duties to assist in training others; and/or I have developed a tracking system for suspense items; and/or I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes. I have maintained a new purge schedule for files and records; and/or I have updated checklists to ensure compliance after policy and/or procedural changes; and/or I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor's use. I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have reviewed program area files for completeness; and/or I have maintained an established filing system for document/information storage/retrieval; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action. None of the above. 6 Institution Hearing Program Assistants must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of the Bureau of Prisons along with program specific guidelines and requirements to provide technical assistance in formulating Institution Supplements and ensure Bureau policy is properly implemented. They must have knowledge of various inmate release and release procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inquiries received regarding program/area requirements; and/or I have responded to general concerns; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. I have applied necessary changes in procedures as indicated by company policy; and/or I have explained policy and procedures to inmates, staff, or others; and/or I have interpreted sentencing and release procedures. Upon a manager's request, I have assisted in interpreting data for an employee; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).