Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a motor vehicle operator? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to do the work of a motor vehicle operator without more than normal supervision including transporting people in 21 person buses or larger? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you possess a Class &ldquo;B&rdquo; Commercial Driver&rsquo;s License (CDL) with a bus driving (P) endorsement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following statement best describes your highest level of experience in maintaining equipment, supplies and documentation associated with vehicle operation and cargo movement? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing this task. I have experience independently reading and interpreting road maps and written instructions as a regular part of my work assignments. I have performed this task on the job to deliver supplies, equipment and/or furniture within a designated area/route. I have the ability to read and interpret road maps. 5 Do you have experience transporting hazardous materials over public roadways? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following Commercial Driver’s License endorsements do you currently possess? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required P- Bus Driver (For vehicles which are designed to carry 16 or more people transporting children to or from school and home regularly for compensation) Air Brakes H (Permits you to drive a vehicle that transports hazardous materials) T (For vehicles designed to haul liquids or liquefied gases in bulk in permanently mounted tanks or portable tanks rated at 1,000 gallons or more) I do not possess any Commercial Driver’s License endorsements. 7 Which of the following task(s) do you have experience performing as a regular part of your duties? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Digging trenches Snow Removal Removing stumps Cargo securement Load balancing Equipment selection Fork lift operation Street sweeping Water truck operation Tree removal Manure transport None of the above 8 Which of the following vehicles have you operated for the purpose of transporting passengers or cargo in the support of a accomplishing the mission of an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Buses under 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Trucks under 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight 15 passenger vans Sedans Vans Flat beds Heavy duty box trucks Buses over 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Trucks over 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Auto Tilt Back Wrecker None of the above 9 Do you have the ability to interpret a road map or use a GPS map locator in the delivery of supplies and/or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have experience scheduling and coordinating transportation cargo requests such as animals, oversized loads and motor vehicles? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following types of records do you have experience maintaining? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Schedules Daily sign-in sheets Daily count sheets Record of all fuel receipts Vehicles inspection reports Load manifest None of the above 12 Which of the following road conditions do you have experience safely operating a motor vehicle (as referenced in the question above) for the purpose of transporting passengers or cargo in the support of accomplishing the mission of an organization. (This does not include vehicles for personal use). (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Rain Snow Hail Heavy traffic Construction zones None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes the number of moving violations you have received within the last two years? Answer to this question is required 0 1 2 More than 2 14 Which of the following have you demonstrated the ability to read and interpret in support of safely operating a motor vehicle? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Maps Shuttle schedules Itineraries Vehicle operation handbooks Safety guidelines None of the above 15 Have you been the recipient of a formal award for driving safety? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.