Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a motor vehicle operator? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to supervise or lead a full range of transportation operations to include scheduling, shuttle operations, dispatch, and cargo? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements describes your leadership experience? Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to employees. I have provided leadership to employees. I have reviewed employee’s work. I have established deadlines for employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees. I have assisted management with identifying training needs. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in leadership concepts and principles? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and I have led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 Do you have experience dispatching and coordinating a motorized fleet? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience receiving and scheduling transportation requests of passengers or cargo? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience prioritizing and scheduling routes for multiple drivers? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following considerations do you have experience with for the purpose of prioritizing and scheduling driver routes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Competing customer needs Limited vehicle availability Limited staff availability Street closures and traffic conditions None of the above 9 Do you have a valid State or District of Columbia drivers' license, and a qualifying safe driving record? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following Commercial Driver’s License endorsements do you currently possess? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required P- Bus Driver (For vehicles which are designed to carry 16 or more people transporting children to or from school and home regularly for compensation) Air Brakes H (Permits you to drive a vehicle that transports hazardous materials) T (For vehicles designed to haul liquids or liquefied gases in bulk in permanently mounted tanks or portable tanks rated at 1,000 gallons or more) I do not possess any Commercial Driver’s License endorsements. 11 Which of the following vehicles have you operated for the purpose of meeting mission requirements ? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Buses under 26,000 Gross vehicles weight Trucks under 26,000 Gross vehicles weight 15 Passengers vans Cargo Vans Heavy Equipment (i.e.: Skid Steer, Front loader) Flat beds Roll Off/Hook Truck Trucks equipped with snowplow and/or salt spreader Buses over 26,000 Gross vehicles weight Trucks over 26,000 Gross vehicles weight Tractor truck with trailers None of the above 12 Do you have experience dispatching and coordinating fleet operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in scheduling cargo transportation services? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in scheduling cargo transportation services but have not yet performed this task on the job I have knowledge, training and experience in cargo transportation services; and have led a workforce of highly skilled drivers as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have knowledge, training and experience in cargo transportation services; and have led a workforce of highly skilled drivers on the job under close supervision. I have knowledge, training and experience in cargo transportation services; and have led a workforce of highly skilled drivers as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor. I have no knowledge, training or experience in scheduling cargo transportation services. 14 Which of the following types of records have you demonstrated the ability to maintain? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Schedules Daily sign in sheets Daily count sheets Record of all fuel receipts Vehicle inspection reports Employee timecards None of the above 15 Which of the following statements best describes your training or experience developing weekly work schedules? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this task before. I have received on the job training for this task, but my work is reviewed by a supervisor. I have never received formal training, but I have performed this task. I perform this task independently as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task as regular part of my job and have trained others in the performance of this task. 16 Do you have experience scheduling and coordinating transportation cargo requests such as motor vehicles, animals, and oversized loads? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following responses have you scheduled or coordinated? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Animal transportation Oversize loads Long distance hauling Multiple stop, multiple vehicle trips Carcass disposal Food transportation VIP transportation Events for more than 100 passengers None of the above 18 Which of the following describes your experience in receiving instructions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I read and understand simple and specific driving instructions for tasks not previously performed. I carry out instructions upon notice until satisfactory completion. I carry out a single instruction after it is carefully explained. I frequently receive instructions which require safely transporting cargo or materials to various destinations in urban areas and highways. I have not done any of the above tasks. 19 Which of the following guides have you demonstrated the ability to read and interpret in support of accomplishing transport missions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Maps Shuttle schedules Itineraries Vehicle operation handbooks Safety guidelines None of the above 20 Which of the following road conditions do you have experience in safely operating a motor vehicle for the purpose transporting passengers or cargo in support of accomplishing the mission of the organization? This does not include vehicles for personal use. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Heavy traffic. Rain. Hail. Snow. Steep grade Construction zones. None of the above. 21 Which of the following best describes the number of moving violations you have received within the last two years? Answer to this question is required 0 1 2 More than 2 22 Do you have experience transporting hazardous materials over public roadways? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Do you have the ability to interpret a road map or use a GPS map locator in the delivery of supplies and/or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Which of the following statements best describes your experience receiving requests for service and accurately relaying the requests to the appropriate transportation operation? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in receiving requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate transportation operation. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate transportation operation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate transportation operation, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor. I have received requests for service via telephone or in person to clearly and accurately relay the requests to the appropriate transportation operation, as a major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.