Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 2 Do you have experience transporting goods, materials and/or supplies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed absentee reports Developed work plans Researched equipment Created/updated work orders Ordered supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 6 Choose the statements that describes your experience operating forklifts. Answer to this question is required Maneuvered forklifts in small areas such as in warehouses and between outside buildings. Transported vehicles, lifting, lowering and tilting forks in an appropriate safe manner Applied leverage when moving and handling heavy equipment and furnishings. Loaded and unloaded, stacked and unstacked warehouses Moved crates, boxes, packages, pallets, or loose items. None of the above 7 Select the actions you have performed when receiving shipments. Answer to this question is required Visually inspected items for damage Counted items to verify quantity Checked shipping label for accurate delivery location Recorded transactions (e.g., receipt date, time) Puts bar codes, tags, and/or identification marks on items None of the above 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently stored, delivered, and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 9 Select the specialty materials/items you have moved without causing damage? Answer to this question is required Antiques/historical artifacts (e.g., furniture, paintings) Construction material (e.g., tools, parts) Hazardous material (e.g., asbestos, mercury) High-valued items (e.g., precision instruments) None of the above 10 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers while moving materials or cleaning areas. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.