Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to serve as a representative to support audience and visitor engagement for a museum or organization.** Served as a museum representative to improve audience and visitor engagement. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) communicated with visitors and patrons and adapted information; 2) engaged visitors to provide information; 3) registered visitors for events; 4) organized workspaces for public use; 5) provided wayfinding for visitors to respond to inquiries and provided information; 6) guided visitors through information kiosks; 7) provided guidance on interactive information sources; 8) ensured equipment in working order and signage accurate and placed correctly; and 9) provided guidance and assistance during school programs. Answer to this question is required Independently performed AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above tasks in support of audience and visitor engagement for a museum and/or organization. Independently performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks in support of audience and visitor engagement for a museum and/or organization. Independently performed THREE (3) of the above tasks in support of audience and visitor engagement for a museum and/or organization. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide customer service.** Dealt effectively with a wide variety of individuals in order to disseminate information and answer inquiries from members of the public. Answer to this question is required Dealt effectively with a wide variety of individuals while providing detailed and accurate explanations and advice responding to a wide range of inquiries regarding office functions, rules, and assisted customers with other services. Dealt effectively with a wide variety of individuals while providing explanations with accurate information responding to routine inquiries regarding office functions, rules, and assisted customers with other basic services. Dealt effectively with a wide variety of individuals while responding to routine inquires and providing basic information regarding office functions, referring all other inquire to senior staff members in an office or school setting. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge within the subject areas of STEM, history, culture and institutions of Washington, D.C. and the region.** Demonstrated knowledge within the following subjects science, technology, engineering, mathematics, history, culture and institutions of Washington, D.C. and the region. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of subject related to science, technology, engineering, mathematics, history, culture and institutions of Washington, D.C. and the region. In a professional capacity, including a specialized knowledge of the history and architecture of the Library of Congress buildings. Extensive general knowledge of subject related to science, technology, engineering, mathematics, history, culture and institutions of Washington, D.C. and the region. in a professional capacity. General knowledge of subject related to science, technology, engineering, mathematics, history, culture and institutions of Washington, D.C. and the region. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. In a complex professional organization, worked well and cooperated with a variety of individuals (e.g., co-workers, supervisors, managers, school groups, patrons, tour companies and/or visitors) to accomplish the work of an organization and to ensure requirements were met. Answer to this question is required Routinely called on to work collaboratively with others inside and outside an organization to collect and share/present information needed to complete projects, tasks and/or assignments. Frequently gave instruction working collaboratively with others inside an organization to collect and share information needed to complete tasks and/or assignments. Worked with others inside an organization to collect and share information. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).