Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 I meet the following required educational criteria: Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position or combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) plus additional education or appropriate experience. Answer to this question is required Yes No In addition to meeting the educational qualification criteria and the required competencies listed in the announcement, I&nbsp;have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Leading or overseeing complex, organization-wide data management and/or data governance programs, including the implementation, development, and/or operation of enterprise data catalogues, data warehouses, data lakes, or other data platforms;&nbsp; 2. Overseeing the design, development, implementation, or improvement of enterprise data platforms, large-scale data collections, analytical systems, dashboards, data models, or automated reporting solutions;&nbsp; 3. Managing the development and implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML), including through the use of Large Language Models (LLMs), to facilitate data discovery, enhance data analytics, and/or support data science programs with large, complex datasets;&nbsp; 4. Establishing or implementing data governance, data quality, validation, data management, or analytical standards and processes across multiple programs or organizational components;&nbsp; 5. Providing technical leadership in the use of advanced statistical, analytical, computational, or data science methods to identify trends, evaluate data quality, solve complex problems, and support organizational or policy decisions;&nbsp; 6. Coordinating and directing the implementation of data architecture, data frameworks, and technological infrastructure supporting data collections and complex datasets, including those containing large-scale or nationwide geospatial data;&nbsp; 7. Advising senior management on complex data, analytical, technical, or program issues and translating technical findings into clear recommendations for technical and non-technical audiences; and&nbsp; 8. Leading multidisciplinary teams and projects involving data scientists, analysts, information technology professionals, project managers, contractors, or other technical and professional staff.&nbsp; 7 I meet the specialized experience criteria required for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).