Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. Specialized Experience: &nbsp;In order to be deemed as qualified applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: Experience overseeing the development, implementation, and evaluation of comprehensive security policies, procedures, and operational methods to safeguard personnel, facilities, sensitive materials, and critical resources; Experience analyzing and interpreting federal security laws, directives, and regulations to provide senior leadership with authoritative guidance and recommendations on complex security matters; Experience directing personnel security operations, including reviewing and adjudicating background investigations, determining suitability, and managing security clearance processes in compliance with federal standards; Experience managing physical security programs such as access control, intrusion detection, emergency preparedness, and facility risk assessments to ensure alignment with agency requirements; and Experience supervising and providing leadership to security staff or multidisciplinary teams, including assigning work, evaluating performance, and guiding day‑to‑day program operations. 1 I meet all of the qualification criteria outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 6 I am a current employee at the FCC. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).