Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 08 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have a certification in backflow prevention? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which resources have you interpreted and applied with help from others? Answer to this question is required Written call assignments Building plans/floor plans Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturers specifications Blueprints Policies and procedures None of the above 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with codes and standards related to pipefitting or plumbing? Answer to this question is required I completed training or education on these codes/standards. I performed pipefitting work under close supervision that adhered to these codes/standards. I have independently performed pipefitting work that adhered to these codes/standards. I reviewed others work to ensure it met codes/standards. None of the above. 4 How have you assisted with maintaining tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Inspected tools/equipment before using them to ensure they were in proper working order Notified a supervisor when tools/equipment were damaged or missing Cleaned tools/equipment after they were used Ensured tools/equipment were not exposed to elements known to cause damage None of the above 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and following manufacturer's specifications? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting and following manufacturer specifications. Others interpret the specifications and provide instructions to me to ensure my work will adhere to the manufacturer's specifications. I interpret the manufacturer's specifications and perform layout tasks. A more senior worker reviews my work to ensure that I followed the specifications. I independently interpret manufacturer's specifications and ensure that the work adheres to the specifications. 6 I have interpreted and closely followed oral instructions given by others. Answer to this question is required True False 7 From the list below, select all of the tools and equipment you used in performing pipefitting duties. Answer to this question is required Internal flange alignment tool Mechanical flange spreader Pipefitter’s square Pipe Wrench Tubing/Pipe Cutter Level Bandsaw Acetylene Torch Pipe Groove Machine None of the above 8 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Steam heating Steam generation Chilled Water Heating Hot Water Sprinkler System Circulating pumps Radiators None of the above 9 Choose the statements that demonstrate your knowledge and ability regarding pipefitting layout and measurement. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of layout and pattern development by parallel line, radial line, and triangulation enabling more difficult layout and pattern work. Knowledge of shop mathematics enabling layout angles, arcs, and circles in performing work such as calculating and aligning pipes, joints, and valves; and installing proper braces and supports to control movement and vibration. Planned and laid out routing, placement, pitch, incline, and elevation of piping systems and equipment allowing for expansion and contracting. Selected the proper methods and planned work sequences for repairing and installing piping sections or to plan and layout plumbing work such as routing, placement, slant, and slope of utility, supply, and disposal systems for the distribution of sewage, water, oil, gas, and compressed air. None of the above. 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience setting pipe runs? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience setting pipe runs. I ran tape to the exact length specified. I specified the exact dimensions for cuts to be made. I cut and threaded pipe. I performed tack welding on steel pipes. 11 Which&nbsp;repair, installation or design&nbsp; layout tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves Commissioning None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.