Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Do you have knowledge of principles, concepts, and methodologies requisite to perform conservation treatments, e.g., chemistry, material technology and deterioration, and art historical and technological understanding of textiles? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience preparing textiles for museum exhibitions, installing and de-installing exhibitions, as well as maintaining objects while on exhibition? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Identify your advanced knowledge of textile conservation and collection maintenance techniques and procedures to examine and house highly complex and damaged, fragile, or deteriorated objects for a museum collection. Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of textile conservation techniques. I have trained conservators/curators and others in performing these duties. have performed textile collection maintenance and procedures to examine and house damaged fragile and deteriorated objects in order to make high level recommendations to management I have studied textile conservation and have experience with conservation of textiles. I have some research experience with textile conservation topics. 5 Are you highly skilled and experienced in &nbsp; performing material testing of contemporary archival materials for use in storage and exhibitions and to perform material identification through microscopy, XRF, and micro-chemical testing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Describe your experience performing material testing of contemporary archival materials for use in storage and exhibitions and to perform material identification through microscopy, XRF, and micro-chemical testing. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Direct hands-on experience with material testing of contemporary archival materials for use in storage and exhibitions for a museum. Assisted others performing material testing of contemporary archival materials for use in storage. Researched and studied the methodology of storage and exhibitions and to perform material identification through microscopy, XRF, and micro-chemical testing. Limited experience methodology of storage and exhibitions. 7 Do you have the ability to work as an effective supervisor (or senior conservator) to oversee all conservation aspects of a collection to meet and exceed deadlines for exhibitions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience overseeing &nbsp; the implementation of conservation requirements for exhibitions and the monitoring and maintenance of those requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.