Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-07 level, maintaining a garden for a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you must possess at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-07 level, operating and maintaining various irrigation systems for multiple large gardens? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you earned at least a bachelor&rsquo;s degree in plant science, horticulture, agronomy, or other agriculture related field? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have completed at least 30 semester hours of courses in the basic plant sciences (of which at least 16 semester hours were in horticultural subjects). Answer to this question is required True False 5 Can you lift and carry up to 50 pounds of weight, repeatedly? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Can you work, on a daily basis, in temperatures above 90 degrees F and below 32 degrees F? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Are you available to work occasional weekend and evening overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select those items which accurately describe work you have completed as part of a job. Answer to this question is required Staking and tying potted plants Fertilizing and watering plants Setting up a bedding plant display Weeding and mulching plant beds Operating in-ground irrigation systems (drips, automatic, overhead or manual) None of the above accurately describes my work experience 9 Select those items which accurately describe work you have completed, as part of a job. Answer to this question is required Removing old sod Tilling ground String-trimming grass or weeds Leveling a plot of land Mowing a lawn Re-seeding a lawn Re-sodding an area None of the above accurately describes my work experience 10 Select those items which accurately describe work you have completed. Answer to this question is required Pruned, sheared, and trimmed trees, bushes or hedges Transplanted a tree Completed edging around the perimeter of a lawn or garden plot Divided perennials Applied insecticide in exterior spaces or to greenhouse plants, with an industrial sprayer Applied fertilizer in exterior spaces or to greenhouse plants, with an industrial injector Used a handheld or backpack blower to remove debris/refuse from walkways None of the above accurately describes my work experience 11 I have worked on exterior plantscapes in a public area, such as a public park or garden, or commercial building landscapes . Answer to this question is required True False 12 Have you completed plant propagation assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have transported multiple trees or plants between greenhouse(s) and plant display area(s), or between one display and another. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Select those items which accurately describe work you have completed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have designed new landscapes I have selected plant material for landscapes I have experience in renovating failing/old landscapes I have produced landscapes design plans to be used as a guide to install landscapes. None of the above 15 Have you used measuring instruments to apportion fertilizers or herbicides? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you used measuring instruments to determine size of sod areas or planting beds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 I have used chemical weed killers as part of my job. Answer to this question is required True False 18 I have applied pesticides as part of my job. Answer to this question is required True False 19 Complete the following statement accurately: I have completed at least 24 credit hours of _________ coursework at the college level. Answer to this question is required botany or plant science landscape design horticulture floriculture none of this 20 Are you an active member of a professional organization in the landscape, horticulture or nursery fields? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Complete the following sentence accurately: "I have been trained on the appropriate application of, and applied, _________." Answer to this question is required ice melt soil amendments different mulch types none of these 22 Complete the following sentence accurately: "I have been trained on the effective planting of _________." Answer to this question is required annuals perennials tropical plants shrubs trees ground covers none of these plants 23 Do you hold a valid and current District of Columbia Pesticide Applicator's License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Indicate those actions you have performed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Checked mechanical equipment for safety purposes, before using Donned personal protective equipment (PPE), issued by an employer Blocked off hazardous work areas to prevent accidents among passers-by Completed manual labor adjacent to objects or structures of exceptionally high monetary value None of these actions 25 Have you spent more than one year overseeing the work of others, in a professional environment, without direct supervision over them? This oversight can include formal, or informal, team lead responsibilities. Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 Have you been responsible for overseeing the work of a service contractor on behalf of your employer? Answer to this question is required Yes No 27 Have you ever conducted a formal, written cost/benefit analysis for your employer, considering different courses of action, products or approaches? Answer to this question is required Yes No 28 Have you ever conducted market research for your employer, which resulted in a purchase decision for that employer? Answer to this question is required Yes No 29 Have you been responsible for developing schedules to be used by other employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 Can you shovel heavy snow for as long as an eight-hour shift? Answer to this question is required Yes No 31 I have experience implementing snow removal procedures in a public, non-residential area. Answer to this question is required True False 32 Indicate the following you have done as part of your job: Answer to this question is required Leading tours for staff members, the public, etc Giving educational demonstrations to staff members, the public, etc Giving lectures to staff members, the public, etc Contacting vendors to procure information, products, services, etc Writing scopes of work for projects to be done by contractors None of these choices 33 Horticulture is the science, technology, and art of intensively cultivating plants for food, comfort, and aesthetic value, often focusing on high-value fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 34 Horticulture is divided into the cultivation of plants for food and plants for ornament.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 35 Arboriculture is the science-based cultivation, management, and study of individual trees, shrubs, and woody plants, particularly in urban environments to ensure their health and safety.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 36 Have you worked clearing snow and ice in high-visibility public areas while maintaining safety and professionalism?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 37 Which of the following snow equipment do you have experience using?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Snow Blower Snowplow Snow brush Skid Steer/Tractor None of these 38 Have you been trained to safely attach, detach, and secure plows, blowers, or spreaders?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.