Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Degree: major in biological science that included: At least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; and At least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields. (Excess course work in aquatic subjects may be used to meet this requirement when appropriate.) Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not possess the education and/or experience as mentioned above. 2 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Specialized experience is defined as experience analyzing anadromous fish and aquatic biology, fish passage, limnology, and instream flows as they as they relate to the licensing, construction, operation, and maintenance of FERC-regulated hydropower projects. 3 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you eligible to receive and maintain a current Top Secret clearance upon appointment? Answer to this question is required True False 6 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).