Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Specialized Experience : Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector overseeing and directing the proper accounting treatment for assets of plans terminated by PBGC, such as implementing new accounting processes in response to updates from the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Examples include :&nbsp; supervising, managing and directing trust accounting for assets and benefits payment; providing financial analysis and advice to executive leadership and other authoritative bodies. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No All candidates for Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements:&nbsp; A. &nbsp;Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. OR&nbsp; B. &nbsp;Combination of education and experience; at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:&nbsp; 1. &nbsp;Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;&nbsp; 2. &nbsp;A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or&nbsp; 3. &nbsp;Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that&nbsp; (a) &nbsp;the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining;&nbsp; (b) &nbsp;a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and&nbsp; (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 2 After reading the requirements above, please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Accountant job series. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in (A) above. . I meet the requirements set forth in (B)(1) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B)(2) above. I meet the requirements set forth in all of (B)(3) above. I do not meet any of the choices above. 3 From the following options related to skill in applying complex regulatory and accounting guidance, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience analyzing and validating plan financial information and statements experience directing cross-functional reviews experience identifying discrepancies or red flags and initiating corrective action experience contracting or operational work related to investment programs experience determining the correct treatment of plan assets in the pre trusteeship program none of the above 4 From the following options related to skill in oral communication, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience presenting technical investment guidance to internal or external audiences experience presenting investment analysis experience leading staff in investment tasks, ensuring accuracy and timely completion experience communicating and supervising employees experience articulating recommendations or strategic direction related to investment or financial oversight functions none of the above 5 From the following options related to skill in written communication, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience drafting technical investment guidance or related analytical reports experience preparing written investment analysis or related program materials experience preparing written recommendations or policy interpretations involving sensitive investment or accounting issues experience documenting supervisory decisions, workflow guidance, or staff performance instructions experience developing written materials that communicate investment performance, risk, or compliance considerations none of the above 6 From the following options related to&nbsp; knowledge of budgeting methodologies and financial planning , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience implementing financial reporting standards and regulatory requirements experience monitoring and reviewing budget implementation for compliance and efficiency experience executing asset transfer processes and related compliance issues experience managing multiple priorities and deadlines experience incorporating information systems and their role in supporting business operations none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).