Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Grain Matching None of the Above 2 What source documents and/or instructions and references have you used to ensure compliance with building codes, objectives, timeliness, and quality of workmanship? Answer to this question is required Building plans Building codes Blueprints Drawings Sketches Written instructions Work orders Specifications None of the above 3 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience leading or supervising employees in the performance of locksmithing, and specialty woodworking or carpentry work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience working with contractors as the point of contact for service work and vendors for supplies, special order materials and restricted hardware? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following items do you have experience fabricating using CNC equipment Answer to this question is required Signs Furniture Custom millwork items Cabinets Cutting keys Engraving keys None of the above 7 What is your level of experience operating CNC equipment. Answer to this question is required Utilize software to design millwork and carpentry items Set machine parameters for fabrication Operate machine independently Perform maintenance on machines Utilize software to input and catalog keys Utilize software to cut and engrave keys None of the above 8 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Door knobs, levers and exit devices Lock cylinders Electrified strikes Cylindrical locks Mortise locks Deadbolts SCIF locks Doors (metal and wood) Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Inlay work Studs (metal and wood) Drywall None of the above 9 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate work? Answer to this question is required Hole saws Power drills Pilot bits Chisels Alignment jigs Carbide burrs Center punches Plug followers Pin kits Pinning tweezers Cylinder shims Key gauges and calipers Shapers Planers Molders Routers Table saws Laser levels Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC key cutting machine None of the above 10 Select the carpentry and locksmithing techniques you have performed. Answer to this question is required Measuring Cutting Lock cylinder pinning Rekeying Lock repair Door and door lever opening tools Personal safe opening Maintain and track several master key systems Padlock removal Parallel line development None of the above 11 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing locksmithing and wood-working. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Planned, designed, laid out, and fabrication of millwork using CNC equipment. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. Planned, designed, laid out, and fabrication of keys using CNC equipment. None of the above. 12 Which of the following do you have safety training in? Answer to this question is required OSHA 10 PPE Asbestos Lead OSHA 30 None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.