Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Management Analysts interact with management officials and other agency staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as making presentations on budget related issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to routine inquiries on financial management issues from peers, regional staff and others in order to complete assignments and resolve minor issues; and/or I have communicated with vendors via phone conversations to resolve billing discrepancies; and/or I have provided briefings during intra-departmental meetings; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have explained cost center procedures to be utilized within the office. I have responded to routine inquires on various procedural issues; and/or I have contacted building services to schedule work orders; and/or I have shared information with co-workers on a new process. I have answered questions from Cost Center Managers regarding availability of funds; and/or I have conducted formal training sessions for program managers and their assistants to teach budget concepts and principles; and/or I have provided status of projects/assignments to supervisor during recurring departmental meetings; and/or I have trained contract staff in Bureau requirements and procedures. None of the above. 3 Management Analysts identify and analyze problems, use sound reasoning to arrive at conclusions and find alternative solutions to problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified anomalies related to billing of cost for services; and/or I have identified billing error calculations; and/or I have recognized and identified a significant audit finding resulting in a deficiency to an operation. I have consulted with co-workers to resolve billing issues; and/or with assistance from supervisor, I have discussed billing discrepancies; and/or I have researched proper payment methods. I have identified trends for forecasting purposes; and/or I have resolved and recommended best practices for handling billing errors; and/or I have drafted internal policy to assist staff with resolving payment issues. None of the above. 4 Management Analysts analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined relevant data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined and resolved minor buying discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending for program areas and initiated appropriate corrective action; and/or I have reviewed posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have monitored a budget plan. I have recommended the reprogramming of funds impacting the local budget; and/or I have assisted with the preparation and submission of a quarterly financial documentation/spreadsheet to finance office; and/or I have analyzed and identified items such as budget variances; and/or I have monitored local level operating plan and adjustments to financial plan; and/or I have notified supervisors and/or cost center managers when obligations exceeded quarterly allotments. I have entered data into Financial Management Information System (FMIS); and/or I have utilized Excel or other software application to track expenditures; and/or I have monitored Fund Control balances and requested additional funding via task order when needed; and/or I have prepared justification for additional funds request. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst prepares budget reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an after-action plan for correction; and/or I have served as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) on services related contracts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information memoranda for staff; and/or I have assisted in preparing responses to operations/program review findings; and/or I have documented and prepared meeting minutes for executive/top management level meetings. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence authored by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have taken minutes at a staff department head meeting. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst is responsible for gathering, analyzing and evaluating management information, programs, and policies as the subject matter expert as it relates to Community Treatment Services. He/she will need to work with Contracting Office, various discipline personnel and potential contractors . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a management assessment; and/or I have analyzed management's objectives and on-going operating programs and assessed/equated their relative value in the overall goals of the agency; and/or I have developed ideas for attaining maximum utilization of the resources of the Branch/department. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have participated as a member of a work group charged with gathering information for special projects; and/or I have participated in the management assessment process; and/or I have participated on a section work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. I have gathered documentation in order to respond to inquiries; and/or I have assisted in determining trends for high level review; and/or I have made recommendations for problem/issue resolution for higher level approval. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).