Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed an Undergraduate or Graduate Education: Major study -- safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene), or degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. Note: Transcripts required at time of application. I have specialized experience related to safety and occupational health that provided me the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience is listed in the qualification section of the vacancy. I have Certification in a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), or Certified Health Physicist (CHP), or similar certification that included successful completion of a written examination meets the requirements for GS-5. Applicants may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience. Note: Copy of Certificate is required. I do not have the education or experience listed above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following statements demonstrate your experience in identifying and correcting safety hazards as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have identified and made recommendations to correct fire hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct electrical hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct tool or machinery hazards. have identified and made recommendations to correct chemical/environmental hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ventilation hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct noise hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ergonomic hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct traffic or parking area hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to heights. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to confined spaces. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to compressed gases (oxygen, acetylene, propane, etc.). I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to transportation and motor vehicle operations. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to boat operations. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to warehousing operations. I have conducted audits and/or evaluations of occupational safety and health programs. I have made recommendations for corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I participated in the implementation of corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I have provided advice and assistance for the interpretation and application of occupational safety and health standards, policies, and procedures. I have developed and implemented best practices for occupational safety and health. I have participated in the evaluation of new equipment prior to acquisition or use to ensure compliance with Federal requirements and applicable consensus guidelines. I have provided occupational safety and health oversight for construction/renovation projects to ensure minimal impact on building occupants and to ensure contractor compliance with applicable safety and health standards. I have developed emergency response and/or preparedness plans. I have provided safety support to my organization’s emergency management functions. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with evaluating the management of unit or organizational ground safety programs and work processes to determine compliance with established occupational safety and health regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 5 Do you have experience interpreting occupational safety and health standards that apply to Federal agencies, construction, and other initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with providing policy analysis on a wide variety of occupational health and safety programs, issues, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 7 Which of the following safety program elements have you have been responsible for&nbsp; preparing, performing, or overseeing as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Regular worksite inspections Job hazard analysis Preparing accident/incident reports OSHA recordkeeping determinations, log, and reporting Preparation or significant updates of disaster plans Acquiring and maintaining Safety Data Sheets Tracking mandatory safety training Medical monitoring and surveillance Monitoring exposure to radiation or hazardous chemicals Hazardous waste management Issuing hotwork permits Fall protection programs, training, and equipment Lock-out/tag-out procedures Personal protective equipment Confined space entry procedures Maintaining logs/records of safety deficiencies and corrective actions Organizing and convening a safety committee for an organization or facility Communicating safety policy and standards to staff or tenants Chemical hazard communication Fire extinguisher maintenance None of the above 8 Describe your experience with techniques and methods used to develop, coordinate, evaluate, and deliver occupational safety and health training. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have participated as a member of a team working on the development, implementation and management of comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have led and coordinated efforts to develop, implement and manage comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have participated as a member of a team working on the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have led the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have evaluated and proposed modifications to instructional materials, tests, training aids, other learning devices, and instruction methods. I have coordinated the logistics of various training activities. I have developed video scripts for safety and health training. I have experience with designing and developing web-based training and materials using various software packages and web programming languages. I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for small groups (less than 20). I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for large groups (more than 20). I have conducted training and/or presentations for employees and union representatives. I have conducted training and/or presentations for supervisors and managers. I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have no knowledge or experience in this area of competency. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing teamwork services (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have served on a problem solving, planning or goal setting committee or team. I have served on a team which included individuals from different occupations and diverse and/or conflicting interests/backgrounds. I have served on a team with individuals who share common interests/backgrounds. I have completed tasks critical to the successful and/or timely completion of a whole team`s outcome. I have led a team or group of experts of various disciplines and completed work within prescribed schedule. I have developed work plans and project objectives with team members. I have participated in presentation of team results and/or findings to audiences outside immediate organization, including: government officials, public and/or special interest groups, representatives of a regulated industry. I have taught or coached team building skills in day-to-day activities, training classes, workshops, seminars and/or other settings. I have played a key role in the development of team recommendations for use in technical or policy decision making or policy development documents. I have taken a position that is different than the team`s consensus. I have presented findings to team members and/or other peers. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with reviewing educational materials and training courses designed to meet Federal and Departmental requirements for occupational safety and health training? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 11 Do you have experience developing outreach materials for distribution and participates in the process to ensure safety-related content is accurate and current? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you have experience participating in the coordination of outreach events to promote the agency safety and health program goals, objectives, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have led or independently investigated minor safety and health incidents. I have participated as a team member in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 14 Do you have experience resolving technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements using safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, theories, practices, and procedures.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following best describes your experiences directing and seeking resolutions to matters pertaining to the effective planning and conducting of Safety, Health, and Environmental Programs for a safe and environmentally compliant workplace? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Do you have experience presenting briefs to managers, supervisors, or employees on new safety or occupational health standards for compliance with established policies.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following best describes your experience using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) for each of the following purposes. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create data tables, charts and graphs from scratch. I have used spreadsheet software to sort, filter and rearrange data. I have created formulas in spreadsheets to perform calculations. I have created pivot tables to summarize complex data in spreadsheets. I have added/updated data in an existing spreadsheet. I have made recommendations based on the results from my spreadsheets and formatted the results for use in reports and/or presentations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 18 Do you have experience compiling statistical data and trends to provide management with information on injury, illness, or exposure experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following best describes your experiences conducting follow-up inspections to ensure violations and hazards are corrected? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 20 Do you have experience developing procedures or abatement actions for conditions not directly addressed by existing guidelines or standards? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Do you have experience conducting formal mishap investigations involving personal injury accidents, property damage, or occupational illnesses? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed an Undergraduate or Graduate Education: Major study -- safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene), or degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. Note: Transcripts required at time of application. I have specialized experience related to safety and occupational health that provided me the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience is listed in the qualification section of the vacancy. I have Certification in a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), or Certified Health Physicist (CHP), or similar certification that included successful completion of a written examination meets the requirements for GS-5. Applicants may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience. Note: Copy of Certificate is required. I do not have the education or experience listed above. 3 Which of the following statements demonstrate your experience in identifying and correcting safety hazards as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have identified and made recommendations to correct fire hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct electrical hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct tool or machinery hazards. have identified and made recommendations to correct chemical/environmental hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ventilation hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct noise hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ergonomic hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct traffic or parking area hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to heights. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to confined spaces. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to compressed gases (oxygen, acetylene, propane, etc.). I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to transportation and motor vehicle operations. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to boat operations. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to warehousing operations. I have conducted audits and/or evaluations of occupational safety and health programs. I have made recommendations for corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I participated in the implementation of corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I have provided advice and assistance for the interpretation and application of occupational safety and health standards, policies, and procedures. I have developed and implemented best practices for occupational safety and health. I have participated in the evaluation of new equipment prior to acquisition or use to ensure compliance with Federal requirements and applicable consensus guidelines. I have provided occupational safety and health oversight for construction/renovation projects to ensure minimal impact on building occupants and to ensure contractor compliance with applicable safety and health standards. I have developed emergency response and/or preparedness plans. I have provided safety support to my organization’s emergency management functions. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following statements demonstrate your experience in identifying and correcting safety hazards as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing diverse work activities that are geographically dispersed. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing similar work activities that are geographically dispersed. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing diverse work activities that are geographically dispersed. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing similar work activities that are geographically dispersed. I do not have the experience described. 5 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with evaluating the management of unit or organizational ground safety programs and work processes to determine compliance with established occupational safety and health regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 6 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with developing organizational directives and procedures establishing technical and administrative safety and occupational health requirements? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 7 Do you have experience interpreting occupational safety and health standards that apply to Federal agencies, construction, and other initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with providing policy analysis on a wide variety of occupational health and safety programs, issues, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 9 Which of the following safety program elements have you have been responsible for&nbsp; preparing, performing, or overseeing as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Regular worksite inspections Job hazard analysis Preparing accident/incident reports OSHA recordkeeping determinations, log, and reporting Preparation or significant updates of disaster plans Acquiring and maintaining Safety Data Sheets Tracking mandatory safety training Medical monitoring and surveillance Monitoring exposure to radiation or hazardous chemicals Hazardous waste management Issuing hotwork permits Fall protection programs, training, and equipment Lock-out/tag-out procedures Personal protective equipment Confined space entry procedures Maintaining logs/records of safety deficiencies and corrective actions Organizing and convening a safety committee for an organization or facility Communicating safety policy and standards to staff or tenants Chemical hazard communication Fire extinguisher maintenance None of the above 10 Describe your experience with techniques and methods used to develop, coordinate, evaluate, and deliver occupational safety and health training. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have participated as a member of a team working on the development, implementation and management of comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have led and coordinated efforts to develop, implement and manage comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have participated as a member of a team working on the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have led the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have evaluated and proposed modifications to instructional materials, tests, training aids, other learning devices, and instruction methods. I have coordinated the logistics of various training activities. I have developed video scripts for safety and health training. I have experience with designing and developing web-based training and materials using various software packages and web programming languages. I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for small groups (less than 20). I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for large groups (more than 20). I have conducted training and/or presentations for employees and union representatives. I have conducted training and/or presentations for supervisors and managers. I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have no knowledge or experience in this area of competency. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience providing teamwork services (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have served on a problem solving, planning or goal setting committee or team. I have served on a team which included individuals from different occupations and diverse and/or conflicting interests/backgrounds. I have served on a team with individuals who share common interests/backgrounds. I have completed tasks critical to the successful and/or timely completion of a whole team`s outcome. I have led a team or group of experts of various disciplines and completed work within prescribed schedule. I have developed work plans and project objectives with team members. I have participated in presentation of team results and/or findings to audiences outside immediate organization, including: government officials, public and/or special interest groups, representatives of a regulated industry. I have taught or coached team building skills in day-to-day activities, training classes, workshops, seminars and/or other settings. I have played a key role in the development of team recommendations for use in technical or policy decision making or policy development documents. I have taken a position that is different than the team`s consensus. I have presented findings to team members and/or other peers. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with reviewing educational materials and training courses designed to meet Federal and Departmental requirements for occupational safety and health training? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience in performing this task. I have had training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, under close supervision. I have experience setting schedules to determine assignments for a police force, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 13 Do you have experience developing outreach materials for distribution and participates in the process to ensure safety-related content is accurate and current? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Do you have experience participating in the coordination of outreach events to promote the agency safety and health program goals, objectives, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have led or independently investigated minor safety and health incidents. I have participated as a team member in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 16 Do you have experience resolving technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements using safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, theories, practices, and procedures.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following best describes your experiences directing and seeking resolutions to matters pertaining to the effective planning and conducting of Safety, Health, and Environmental Programs for a safe and environmentally compliant workplace? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Do you have experience presenting briefs to managers, supervisors, or employees on new safety or occupational health standards for compliance with established policies.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following best describes your experience using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) for each of the following purposes. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create data tables, charts and graphs from scratch. I have used spreadsheet software to sort, filter and rearrange data. I have created formulas in spreadsheets to perform calculations. I have created pivot tables to summarize complex data in spreadsheets. I have added/updated data in an existing spreadsheet. I have made recommendations based on the results from my spreadsheets and formatted the results for use in reports and/or presentations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 20 Do you have experience compiling statistical data and trends to provide management with information on injury, illness, or exposure experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which of the following best describes your experiences conducting follow-up inspections to ensure violations and hazards are corrected? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Do you have experience developing procedures or abatement actions for conditions not directly addressed by existing guidelines or standards? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Do you have experience conducting formal mishap investigations involving personal injury accidents, property damage, or occupational illnesses? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.