Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education. Answer to this question is required I possess at least 1 full year of graduate level education in the areas listed in the vacancy announcement. I have undergraduate superior academic achievement. I do not meet the requirements described above. 2 Select the response below that most accurately describes your eligibility for a Recent Graduate appointment. NOTE: You must provide documentation supporting your answer - see "Required Documents" section of the announcement. Answer to this question is required I completed my qualifying diploma, degree or certificate program (as defined in the vacancy announcement) within the previous two years. I am a veteran who was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during the two-year eligibility period due to a military service obligation, and not more than six years have transpired since I completed the requirements for completion of a diploma, degree, or certificate program. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. 3 From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your ability to build communication and coalitions through influence and negotiations. Answer to this question is required I have worked in groups and teams; conducted briefings and other meetings; gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; facilitated win-win situations. I have applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to program problems and/or conflicts. I have convinced others to consider different points of view. None of the above. 4 Evaluate your experience in giving oral presentations to convey technical concepts and information. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations to group audiences on many occasions I have given oral presentations to group audiences on an occasional basis I have not given oral presentations to group audiences 5 Select the choice below that best describes your experience preparing written documents/reports that demonstrate your ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. Answer to this question is required I have work experience preparing written documents/reports that demonstrate my ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. I have taken college-level courses that required written documents/reports that demonstrate my ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. I have not had education or experience in the performance of this task. 6 Select the choice below that best describes your level of experience researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. Answer to this question is required I have work experience researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. I have taken college-level courses that involved researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. I have not had education, training, or experience in the performance of this task. Grade: 09 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education. Answer to this question is required I possess at least a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate degree, (such as LL.B. or J.D). I do not meet the requirement as described above. 2 Select the response below that most accurately describes your eligibility for a Recent Graduate appointment. NOTE: You must provide documentation supporting your answer - see "Required Documents" section of the announcement. Answer to this question is required I completed my qualifying diploma, degree or certificate program (as defined in the vacancy announcement) within the previous two years. I am a veteran who was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during the two-year eligibility period due to a military service obligation, and not more than six years have transpired since I completed the requirements for completion of a diploma, degree, or certificate program. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. 3 From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your ability to build communication and coalitions through influence and negotiations. Answer to this question is required I have worked in groups and teams; conducted briefings and other meetings; gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; facilitated win-win situations. I have applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to program problems and/or conflicts. I have convinced others to consider different points of view. None of the above. 4 Evaluate your experience in giving oral presentations to convey technical concepts and information. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations to group audiences on many occasions I have given oral presentations to group audiences on an occasional basis I have not given oral presentations to group audiences 5 Select the choice below that best describes your experience preparing written documents/reports that demonstrate your ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. Answer to this question is required I have work experience preparing written documents/reports that demonstrate my ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. I have taken college-level courses that required written documents/reports that demonstrate my ability to explain and present complex technical issues, analyses, and findings. I have not had education or experience in the performance of this task. 6 Select the choice below that best describes your level of experience researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. Answer to this question is required I have work experience researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. I have taken college-level courses that involved researching, analyzing and evaluating technical information and data. I have not had education, training, or experience in the performance of this task. Grade: All Grades 1 Does your most recent transcript indicate that you possess at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA or equivalent on a 4.0 scale? (Your most current unofficial transcript must be uploaded or faxed for GPA verification.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the response below that most accurately describes your eligibility for a Recent Graduate appointment. NOTE: You must provide documentation supporting your answer - see "Required Documents" section of the announcement. Answer to this question is required I completed my qualifying diploma, degree or certificate program (as defined in the vacancy announcement) within the previous two years. I am a veteran who was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during the two-year eligibility period due to a military service obligation, and not more than six years have transpired since I completed the requirements for completion of a diploma, degree, or certificate program. I will complete my qualifying diploma, degree or certificate program (as defined in the vacancy announcement) in the next 90 days. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. 3 Please provide your major field of study. Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 10 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty 13 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).