Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 4 I have employed the following quantitative methods for measuring the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of administrative and technical programs. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Creating and maintaining databases Correlation data analysis Graphic data analysis Calculation of relevant rates and percentages Manipulation of formulas in Excel or in other database formats Other None of the above 5 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 6 With which of the following program management techniques do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones Results Based Management None of the above 7 I have experience in assessing program / project effectiveness by: Answer to this question is required Creating an audit process. Designing a study. Designing a survey / questionnaire. Implementing a survey. Analyzing outcome data related to the program / project. Reporting findings. None of the above. 8 From the following list of data analyses software tools, please identify those that you have successfully used to interpret data: Answer to this question is required R Python Scala Julia SPSS S-PLUS Stata MS-Excel D3 (data driven-documents) MATLAB or Mathematica Data applied Tableau e-Spatial ArcGIS Google-Charts/Google Maps RapidMiner KNIME None of the above 9 I have performed data analyses to support the following objectives: Answer to this question is required Develop long range program planning. Determine overall project execution methodology. Determine specific project activities. Resolve project specific issues. None of the above. 10 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 11 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 12 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 13 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Answer to this question is required Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 14 From the following list, indicate the tasks that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have drafted policies, guidance and/or operating procedures pertaining to records or information resource management issues. I have conducted studies and recommended internal controls or procedures to resolve issues with records management systems. I have coordinated and assembled records from both automated and non-automated records management systems for projects and/or to respond to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and other requests. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to staff on records management issues. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to management officials on records management issues. I research and analyze policy concepts and issues, best practices and recommend appropriate solutions to records or information resource management issues. As the office liaison, I consult with other organizations on records management issues and provide guidance. I conduct and/or assist with conducting quality reviews of data entered and retrieved from the system to ensure the adequacy and accuracy of the information and to identify potential problems. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.