Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 09 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describe your professional experience with serving as primary liaison with Human Resources regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment, and pay administration? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as the primary liaison with Human Resources regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, human resource development, and pay administration. I have experience serving as the assistant liaison with a central Human Resources Office regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, human resource development and pay administration. I have experience working with a central Human Resources Office regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, human resource development and pay administration. I have experience with recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, Human Resources development and pay administration. I have experience with recruitment and appointment, Human Resources development and pay administration. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statement(s) describe your staffing and recruiting experience that you performed on a regular, recurring basis? Answer to this question is required I have no staffing experience. I have set pay on new hires and promotions. I have used automated systems to enter personnel actions. I have developed questions for automated recruitment systems. I received formal training or education in staffing and recruiting. I am familiar with special hiring authorities relating to non-competitive appointments. I have consulted with managers regarding succession planning and staffing plans. I have conducted interviews and/or been an HR Representative on an interview panel. I have developed vacancy announcements for competitive and excepted service positions. I have prepared job analysis. I have reviewed and approved crediting plans. I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which reflects your experience in performing personnel activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched definitions of and proper procedures for personnel actions. I have provided guidance on personnel actions. I have initiated requests for personnel actions in an automated HRIS systems such as ERP, PeopleSoft, or HRMS. I have tracked requests for personnel actions. I have assisted with coordination or prepared personnel requests in accordance with recruitment procedures. I have responded to routine HR inquiries from staff. I have attended courses in human resources management and administration. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 5 Which of the following best describes your work with senior management and supervisors to identify accurate position descriptions, develop staffing plans, discuss organizational requirements and explain restrictions and flexibilities inherent in classification, recruitment and placement? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following Human Resources areas have you provided advice and guidance to managers, employees or human resources specialists? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruiting and placement. Staffing. Performance management. Recognition/awards. Employee benefits. Employee development. Telecommuting. Training. Leave administration. Employee relations. Labor relations. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience performing or overseeing the processing of personnel actions, maintenance of records, and related functions including advising departmental management on all aspects of personnel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience making recommendations relating to various personnel actions. I have experience advising department heads on personnel management issues and problems. I have experience maintaining continuous communications with HR representative in the areas of recruiting, promotion, training, EEO, disciplinary actions and performance plans and evaluations. I have experience providing position management advice and recommendations to managers. I have experience functioning as a team leader including responsibility as the primary organizational or project representative. None of the above 8 Describe your experience in general administrative support (check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have performed work that involves support of performance management programs and/or employee awards programs. I have participated in planning meetings or conferences. I have worked with departments such as financial management or purchasing to track and expedite purchases, travel, payments and other actions. I have researched available procurement and travel resources to resolve bottlenecks by notifying or reminding others of pending/open procurement and travel actions. I have experience using an automated system to receive job orders and/or to track performance status of a job. I have entered data into status tracking databases. I have used web-based or other databases to populate, send, retrieve, and store information. I have frequently researched within web-based and other databases or the internet to access critical information and report back to the requester/client for customer satisfaction with appropriate follow-through in al interactions. I have experience with prioritizing my workload successfully. I have demonstrated an ability to re-prioritize projects and help colleagues as unplanned events occur to ensure immediate tasks and larger unit goals are met. I engage in continuous learning to ensure quality assurance of work products and for potential growth to higher positions. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your written communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have limited writing experience. I have experience writing or editing memoranda, documents, or reports. I have experience writing or editing newsletter articles, technical documents, task force reports, operating procedures, or portions thereof. I have experience drafting or doing the research for organization or agency policy or manuals. I oversee employees in an environment where the primary mission is to produce written products or materials. I have not performed any of the above functions. 10 Which of the following best describes the verbal (oral) communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external audiences. I have made presentations and/or provided classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have successfully negotiated with others to resolve issues. I have interviewed staff or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or partner in efforts. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describe your professional experience with serving as primary liaison with Human Resources regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment, and pay administration? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as the primary liaison with Human Resources regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, human resource development, and pay administration. I have experience serving as the assistant liaison with a central Human Resources Office regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, human resource development and pay administration. I have experience working with a central Human Resources Office regarding position description classification, staffing, recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, human resource development and pay administration. I have experience with recruitment appointment, labor management and employee relations, Human Resources development and pay administration. I have experience with recruitment and appointment, Human Resources development and pay administration. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statement(s) describe your staffing and recruiting experience that you performed on a regular, recurring basis? Answer to this question is required I have no staffing experience. I have set pay on new hires and promotions. I have used automated systems to enter personnel actions. I have developed questions for automated recruitment systems. I received formal training or education in staffing and recruiting. I am familiar with special hiring authorities relating to non-competitive appointments. I have consulted with managers regarding succession planning and staffing plans. I have conducted interviews and/or been an HR Representative on an interview panel. I have developed vacancy announcements for competitive and excepted service positions. I have prepared job analysis. I have reviewed and approved crediting plans. I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following describes your education, training, or experience in regards to position classification? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have attended a Basic Position Classification course. I have attended a Position Classification advanced course. I have attended a Position Management Techniques to Improve Organizational Efficiency course. I have attended a Principles of Classification course. I have reviewed position descriptions (PDs) for consistency with related PDs, approved organization, etc. I have researched, interpreted, and applied a variety of classification standards (with published criteria) for technical and clerical positions. I have researched, interpreted, and applied classification standards (with published criteria) for administrative, management, technical, and clerical positions. I have researched, interpreted, and applied classification standards (some without published criteria) for administrative, management, and higher-level technical positions (i.e., scientific, engineering, other professional, IT, technical occupations, a variety of Federal Wage System occupations, etc). None of the above. 5 Which reflects your experience in performing personnel activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched definitions of and proper procedures for personnel actions. I have provided guidance on personnel actions. I have initiated requests for personnel actions in an automated HRIS systems such as ERP, PeopleSoft, or HRMS. I have tracked requests for personnel actions. I have assisted with coordination or prepared personnel requests in accordance with recruitment procedures. I have responded to routine HR inquiries from staff. I have attended courses in human resources management and administration. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 6 Which of the following best describes your work with senior management and supervisors to identify accurate position descriptions, develop staffing plans, discuss organizational requirements and explain restrictions and flexibilities inherent in classification, recruitment and placement? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following statements best describe your professional experience with providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations, policy, and guidance? Answer to this question is required I have experience directly providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations and policy developing and guidance. I have experience providing advice to senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations, policy and guidance. I have experience assisting senior management on HR policies and performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations. I have experience gathering data to assist senior management on performing program analyses for developing personnel regulations. I have experience assisting an HR department with developing personnel regulations. None of the above. 8 Which of the following Human Resources areas have you provided advice and guidance to managers, employees or human resources specialists? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruiting and placement. Staffing. Performance management. Recognition/awards. Employee benefits. Employee development. Telecommuting. Training. Leave administration. Employee relations. Labor relations. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience performing or overseeing the processing of personnel actions, maintenance of records, and related functions including advising departmental management on all aspects of personnel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience making recommendations relating to various personnel actions. I have experience advising department heads on personnel management issues and problems. I have experience maintaining continuous communications with HR representative in the areas of recruiting, promotion, training, EEO, disciplinary actions and performance plans and evaluations. I have experience providing position management advice and recommendations to managers. I have experience functioning as a team leader including responsibility as the primary organizational or project representative. None of the above 10 Describe your experience in general administrative support (check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have performed work that involves support of performance management programs and/or employee awards programs. I have participated in planning meetings or conferences. I have worked with departments such as financial management or purchasing to track and expedite purchases, travel, payments and other actions. I have researched available procurement and travel resources to resolve bottlenecks by notifying or reminding others of pending/open procurement and travel actions. I have experience using an automated system to receive job orders and/or to track performance status of a job. I have entered data into status tracking databases. I have used web-based or other databases to populate, send, retrieve, and store information. I have frequently researched within web-based and other databases or the internet to access critical information and report back to the requester/client for customer satisfaction with appropriate follow-through in al interactions. I have experience with prioritizing my workload successfully. I have demonstrated an ability to re-prioritize projects and help colleagues as unplanned events occur to ensure immediate tasks and larger unit goals are met. I engage in continuous learning to ensure quality assurance of work products and for potential growth to higher positions. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your written communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have limited writing experience. I have experience writing or editing memoranda, documents, or reports. I have experience writing or editing newsletter articles, technical documents, task force reports, operating procedures, or portions thereof. I have experience drafting or doing the research for organization or agency policy or manuals. I oversee employees in an environment where the primary mission is to produce written products or materials. I have not performed any of the above functions. 12 Which of the following best describes the verbal (oral) communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external audiences. I have made presentations and/or provided classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have successfully negotiated with others to resolve issues. I have interviewed staff or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or partner in efforts. I have not done any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing briefings, reports, letters, and other documents? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training preparing briefings, reports, letters, and other documents. I have completed formal education or training preparing briefings, reports, letters, and other documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared briefings, reports, letters, and other documents on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have prepared briefings, reports, letters, and other documents as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. Preparing briefings, reports, letters, and other documents has been a central or major part of my work. I am usually consulted as an expert in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.