Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to Identify, Analyze and Resolve Problems.** Identified, analyzed and resolved problems. Answer to this question is required Independently identified and analyzed problems and recommended solutions related to substantive issues in a workplace or academic setting. Recommendations were successfully implemented and the problems were resolved in a timely manner. Identified problems and recommended solutions according to specific directives and guidelines but with some discretion in suggesting resolutions. Recommendations were successfully implemented and the problems were resolved in a timely manner. Identified problems and recommended timely solutions according to specific directives and guidelines. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to Communicate in Writing.** Communicated in writing in order to prepare correspondence explaining procedures or issues in a clear and concise manner. Answer to this question is required Using knowledge of grammar, writing and editing practices, independently prepared complex and non-routine letters, reports, and memos, or research papers typical of graduate level work in an academic setting or comparable professional experience. Using knowledge of grammar, writing, and editing practices, independently wrote routine and non-routine letters, reports, memos, and essays typical of an academic or professional setting. Using knowledge of grammar, writing, and editing practices, drafted original documents including routine letters, reports, and memos, and created original letters to provide or solicit information. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to Work with a Variety of Written Information, Procedures, and Instructions.** Worked with detailed information, written procedures and instructions in order to organize and handle work assignments. Answer to this question is required Made independent decisions based on a variety of written options, procedures, instructions, and/or regulations. Reviewed and processed documents, materials, and/or products based on written procedures and instructions. With minimal supervision, reviewed, processed and assembled documents, materials, and/or products based on established written procedures and instructions. Assembled and processed documents, materials, and/or products based on established written procedures and instructions. Final work reviewed by supervisor. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to Utilize Computer Technology/Software Applications. Utilized computer technology and software applications as a component of work performed for an organization, including: 1) word-processing and document management software (e.g., Microsoft Word, Adobe), 2) electronic mail and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook, GroupWise), 3) authoritative web/internet access and resources (e.g., government and university websites), 4) spreadsheet and database management (e.g. Access, Microsoft Excel), 5) presentation software (e.g., Power Point), 6) collaborative software (e.g., SharePoint and wikis), and 7) online catalogs/databases. Answer to this question is required Used ALL of the above to perform work in a professional office or academic setting. Used FIVE or SIX of the above to perform work in a professional office or academic setting. Used FOUR of the above to complete administrative work in a professional office or academic setting. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work. Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work assignments in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, prioritized, organized, and completed work assignments for self and workgroup, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required input and resources needed, established schedules, and met deadlines and milestones. With minimal supervision, planned, organized, and completed work assignments, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required inputs and resources needed, and met deadlines and milestones. Completed work assignments primarily planned by supervisor. Identified work objectives and followed well established procedures, meeting deadlines. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).