Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following list of collections management functions, standards, and practices do you have expertise in performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have monitored security and environmental conditions and recognizing conservation and preservation concerns. I have tracked objects and recorded information on their movement and location. I have handled and moved objects that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. I have set up, organized and maintained collections storage spaces. I do not have expertise with collections management functions, standards, and practices. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience responding orally and in writing to inquires relating to artifacts and images in a museum or cultural institution&rsquo;s collections? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience responding orally and in writing to inquires relating to artifacts in museum or cultural institution’s collections and historical images. I have moderate experience responding orally and in writing to inquires relating to artifacts in museum or cultural institution’s collections and historical images. I have minimal experience responding orally and in writing to inquires relating to artifacts in museum or cultural institution’s collections and historical images. I do not have experience responding orally and in writing to inquires relating to artifacts in museum or cultural institution’s collections and historical images. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience using a museum or cultural institution collections information system? Answer to this question is required I have used a museum or cultural institution’s Computer Information System (CIS) to query and record collections management data. I have used a museum Computer Information System (CIS) CIS to query collections management data, but not to record it. I have not used a museum Computer Information System (CIS) CIS to query and record collections management data. 5 Which of the following best describes your collections management work with inventorying and rehousing large, complex collections of objects? Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum or cultural institution’s inventory and rehousing best practices, including identifying and cataloging objects in a Computer Information System (CIS) database, reconciling objects against the original accession files, rehousing objects into appropriate housing, drafting memorandums regarding object provenance and verifying legal title. I have moderate knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum or cultural institution’s inventory and rehousing best practices, including identifying and cataloging objects in a Computer Information System (CIS) database, reconciling objects against the original accession files, rehousing objects into appropriate housing, drafting memorandums regarding object provenance and verifying legal title. I have minimal knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum or cultural institution’s inventory and rehousing best practices, including identifying and cataloging objects in a Computer Information System (CIS) database, reconciling objects against the original accession files, rehousing objects into appropriate housing, drafting memorandums regarding object provenance and verifying legal title. I do not have any knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum or cultural institution’s inventory and rehousing best practices, including identifying and cataloging objects in a Computer Information System (CIS) database, reconciling objects against the original accession files, rehousing objects into appropriate housing, drafting memorandums regarding object provenance and verifying legal title. 6 Which of the following list of collections management work for exhibitions do you have expertise in performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled and moved objects that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. I have installed and de-installed objects in exhibition that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. I have monitored security and environmental conditions and recognized conservation and preservation concerns. I have tracked objects and recorded information on their movement and location. I do not have expertise in the practices and methods used in collections management work for exhibits. 7 Which of the collections inventory tasks have you completed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used a collections information system to record, manage, query, and retrieve object records in the course of an inventory. I have physically examined objects to determine if they have a museum number. I have updated or created collections information system records with inventory data following established data standards. I have identified and documented inventory issues for resolution. I have experience working under supervision reconciling discrepancies between objects and curatorial and collections management records. I have assessed existing digital media to ensure that they are clear/in focus and represent the object accurately. I have created new digital media that meets digital media standards. I do not have experience conducting a physical collections inventory. 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices? Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of 4 collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration) through on-the-job training and/or college-level coursework. I have expert knowledge of 3 collections management functions, standards and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration) through on-the-job training and/or college-level coursework. I have expert knowledge of 2 collections management functions, standards and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration) through on-the-job training and/or college-level coursework. I do not have expert level knowledge of collections management. 9 Which of the following object handling methods do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cleaning. Housing. Storing. I have no experience working with museum objects. 10 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Forklifts. Dollies. Pallet jacks. Flat bed carts. Hand carts. Johnson bars. Gantries. Scissor lifts. I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 11 Do you have experience and/or training related to the disposal of hazardous materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.