Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to maintain inventory and controls.** Maintains a daily inventory balance of all equipment, accessories, publications, forms and supplies. This includes: 1) inputting receipt, requisition, issue and adjustment transactions, 2) assists in processing of inventory, 3) assists in monitoring procurement actions, 4) reviews and recommends disposal of material, 5) initiates action to dispose of obsolete and unneeded items, 6) replenish stock as needed, and 7) makes revisions to the supply catalog to add or delete inventory items. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, independently performed ALL of the following duties for various large warehouse locations and offsite storage facilities. Duties include: 1) inputting receipt, requisition, issue and adjustment transactions, 2) assists in processing of inventory, 3) assists in monitoring procurement actions, 4) reviews and recommends disposal of material, 5) initiates action to dispose of obsolete and unneeded items, 6) replenish stock as needed, and 7) makes revisions to the supply catalog to add or delete inventory items. As a job responsibility, independently performed FIVE (5) to SIX (6) of the above duties for various large warehouse locations and offsite storage facilities. As a job responsibility, independently performed THREE (3) to FOUR (4) of the above duties for various large warehouse locations and offsite storage facilities. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of automated supply, administrative tools and asset management systems.** Used administrative tools and automated systems to manage materials/product, asset control and logistics&rsquo; management programs. This includes initial planning through acquisition, storage, issue, forecasting, utilization and disposal. Administrative tools and systems utilized include: 1) inventory management system, 2) word-processing (e.g., Word), 3) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 4) presentations (e.g., PowerPoint), 5) internet, 6) electronic calendar, 7) electronic time and attendance, and 8) email (e.g., Outlook). Answer to this question is required Used automated logistics’ management systems to manage product/materials, asset control and logistics’ management programs. The automated system must have been integrated with the various logistics’ data elements. Used ALL of the administrative tools and systems listed above. Used automated logistics’ management systems to carry out functions related to inventory management and at least FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the administrative tools above. Used automated logistics’ management systems and familiar with at least FOUR (4) of the administrative tools above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems, and develop solutions. Developed, planned, and analyzed strategies required to coordinate and resolve organizational and operational issues and problems pertaining to inventory, property, and equipment management. Answer to this question is required As a key team member, analyzed complex issues related to establishing program goals and objectives for the program area and analyzed organizational and operational problems. Provided recommendations to be presented as solutions to a higher level. As a team member, analyzed issues related to organizational and operational problems. Provided recommendations to be presented as solutions to a higher level. As a team member, analyzed issues related to organizational and operational problems. Assisted in providing recommendations to be presented as solutions to a higher level. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Conveyed official information in writing, related to inventory management such as: 1) inventory and shipping reports, 2) monthly reports, 3) responses to inquiries, 4) descriptive memos, 5) memoranda, 6) instructional materials, and 7) emails. Answer to this question is required Prepared ALL of the following written communication for individuals within and outside an organization or agency. Documents include: 1) inventory and shipping reports, 2) monthly reports, 3) responses to inquiries, 4) descriptive memos, 5) memoranda, 6) instructional materials, and 7) emails. Prepared FIVE (5) to SIX (6) of the above written communication for individuals within and outside an organization or agency. Prepared THREE (3) to FOUR (4) of the above written communication for individuals within and outside an organization or agency. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Provided positive and professional service to customers and worked with them to meet current and anticipated future needs. Answer to this question is required As the primary contact for assessing and meeting customer needs, independently handled complex and challenging situations for resolution. Worked directly with clients and vendors both internally and externally to determine sources for services, locating services for staff and providing timely feedback on customer needs. Regular collaboration with other divisions within an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact for assessing and meeting customer needs, under general supervision handled routine situations for resolution. Worked with clients internally to determine sources for services, locating services for staff and providing timely feedback to customers. Regular collaboration with other divisions within an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact for assessing and meeting customer needs, under direct supervision, handled routine situations for resolution. Worked with clients internally to determine sources for services locating services for staff and providing timely feedback to customers. Regular collaboration with co-workers to complete work. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).