Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Employee Development Specialists must identify training needs in order to develop employee development programs that foster career progression. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared new materials for training presentations or recommended courses; and/or I have identified instructors and organized course materials for training classes; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs; and/or I have made recommendations regarding a new training program; and/or I have recommended a self-development course to an employee; and/or I have prepared a training agenda for a group presentation. I have reviewed, justified and acquired all resources necessary to accomplish a training program; and/or I have analyzed class evaluation forms and made modifications to curriculum or presentation as needed; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials, or training aids for use in existing training programs; and/or I have developed creative testing materials or instructional aids; and/or I have worked with managers to address concerns to improve training at a national level. I have prepared the room for training by organizing the tables and chairs; and/or I have placed student materials on the tables; and/or I have printed the name tents for participants; and/or I have provided “housekeeping” messages for training participants such as bathroom locations, vending machine locations and more; and/or I have responded to location specific questions from guest instructors or participants with a high level of customer service. None of the above. 3 Employee Development Specialists must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee development program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured that those in collateral duty positions such as EEO counselors and firearms instructors completed mandatory training; and/or I have explained training requirements to vendors interested in providing training to employees. I have provided instruction and guidance to staff regarding employee development policies and procedures; and/or I have made credit card purchases for employee development while adhering to policy; and/or I have kept track of cost center expenditures in accordance with fiscal policy. I have checked to ensure all participants completed the forms appropriately and accurately; and/or I have provided the forms to the training coordinator or designated Human Resource staff member to be used in keying the training; and/or I have ensured appropriate supplies for training were purchased in accordance with procurement guidelines and policy. None of the above. 4 Employee Development Specialists manage funds and equipment to ensure the training needs of the organization are met.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the HRMD Strategic Planning process; and/or I have analyzed polices and directives affecting nationwide training; and/or I have ensured facilities were available and could accommodate for training; and/or I have developed training instructor or employee development staff schedules; and/or I have searched for appropriate and cost-effective alternatives to costly training. I have completed regular checks of inventory, prior to both small and large scale training to ensure necessary supplies were on hand to ensure a successful training program; and/or I have encouraged staff to be fully engaged in local training events; and/or I have maintained a positive rapport with all staff regarding training offered by the agency. I have administered nationwide training programs, conferences, and meetings; and/or I have modified nationwide training schedules to accommodate Executive staff operational needs; and/or I have ensured proper use, maintenance, and return or training equipment; and/or I have operated the employee development budget as the cost center manager. None of the above. 5 Employee Development Specialists use thier knowledge of the theories, principles, methods, and techniques of employee development to identify training needs and develop training programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have moved tables to allow access to projector screens; and/or I have moved participants closer that do not hear or see well; and/or I have ensured cords are not trip hazards and more; and/or I have responded to staff regarding the completion requirements for training accurately and appropriately. I have recommended the adoption of a revised course outline or a new type of training aid; and/or I have conducted surveys of training needs and made recommendations for future training; and/or I have served as a course instructor. I have answered inquiries about available training; and/or I have clarified eligibility requirements and application procedures; and/or I have monitored personnel movement such as promotions, transfers, or accessions to ensure that mandatory training requirements are met; and/or I have assisted other instructors in preparation and delivery of courses. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Employee Development Specialists must identify training needs in order to develop employee development programs that foster career progression. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed, justified and acquired all resources necessary to accomplish training program; and/or I have analyzed class evaluation forms and made modifications to curriculum or presentation as needed; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials, or training aids for use in existing training programs. I have prepared new materials for training presentations or recommended courses; and/or I have identified instructors and organized course materials for training classes; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs; and/or I have made recommendations regarding a new training program; and/or I have recommended a self development course to an employee; and/or I have prepared a training agenda for a group presentation. I have coordinated an annual training program for a government agency; and/or I have planned a training program after conducting a needs assessment; and/or I have identified training needs and developed responsive programs, and provided a broad range of advice/assistance to Bureau management and field officials. I have developed creative testing materials or instructional aids; and/or I have worked with managers to address concerns to improve training at a national level. None of the above. 3 Employee Development Specialists must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee development program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured that those in collateral duty positions such as EEO counselors and firearms instructors completed mandatory training; and/or I have explained training requirements to vendors interested in providing training to employees. I have participated as a member of an employee development program review team comparing current practice against policies and procedures; and/or I have provided assistance to all levels within organization in the interpretation of Federal statutes, guidelines, and other policy pertaining to employee development. I have provided instruction and guidance to staff regarding employee development policies and procedures; and/or I have made credit card purchases for employee development while adhering to policy; and/or I have kept track of cost center expenditures in accordance with fiscal policy. I have served as the Reviewer in Charge for an employee development operational review; and/or I have provided guidance to new employee development staff regarding training policy and monitored their work to ensure compliance with policies and regulations. None of the above. 4 Employee Development Specialists manage funds and equipment to ensure the training needs of the organization are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, recommended and presented equipment justification for training program to senior managers; and/or I have led a team in recruitment activities; and/or I have developed a yearly plan for fiscal resources/budget; and/or I have tracked training expenditures to ensure a positive balance. I have administered nationwide training programs, conferences, and meetings; and/or I have modified nationwide training schedules to accommodate Executive staff operational needs; and/or I have ensured proper use, maintenance, and return of training equipment; and/or I have operated the employee development budget as the cost center manager. I have assisted in the HRMD Strategic Planning process; and/or I have analyzed policies and directives affecting nationwide training; and/or I have ensured facilities were available and could accommodate for training; and/or I have developed training instructor or employee development staff schedules; and/or I have searched for appropriate and cost-effective alternatives to costly training. None of the above. 5 Employee Development Specialists use their knowledge of the theories, principles, methods, and techniques of employee development to identify training needs and develop training programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended the adoption of a revised course outline or a new type of training aid; and/or I have conducted surveys of training needs and made recommendations for future training; and/or I have served as a course instructor. I have developed nationwide employee development guidelines; and/or I have advised management on employee development matters; and/or I have designed and implemented individual employee development projects; and/or I have developed guidelines for institution familiarization or other initial orientation programs. I have answered inquiries about available training; and/or I have clarified eligibility requirements and application procedures; and/or I have monitored personnel movement such as promotions, transfers, or accessions to ensure that mandatory training requirements are met; and/or I have assisted other instructors in preparation and delivery of courses. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 8 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).