Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 What is the highest level at which you have had to make decisions in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Organizational wide Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Mid-evel supervisor First level supervisor None of the above 5 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 6 Experience working in teams Answer to this question is required Worked as part of a team to complete a project. Managed a team to complete a project. Built and managed a team to complete complex projects. Never worked on a team. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development I have been a project leader but not a supervisor I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 8 Investigation and compliance work often involves analyzing current problems or conditions, applying criteria or benchmarks, determining discrepancies, and developing solutions or improvements. Identify the knowledge or skill areas that you have applied on the job to analyze conditions, solve problems or develop solutions. Answer to this question is required Principles of Quality Control (e.g., Total Quality Management, Six Sigma) Process Management Process Mapping Statistical Process Control Gap Analysis Organizations as Systems Operations Research Research Methods None of the above 9 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Briefings Conferences Interviews Meetings One on One discussions Technical assistance Telephone inquiries Town hall meetings Training Work groups None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.