Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with travel programs, policies and requirements? Answer to this question is required I have served as an organizational travel administrator and/or program manager in which I was responsible for advising customers on travel policies and requirements; managing a travel budget; resolving exceptionally complex issues involving senior-level officials, and collaborating with other travel professionals in developing comprehensive travel policies and procedures. I have served as an organizational travel expert with responsibility for advising customers on travel policies and requirements; managing a travel budget and resolving complex travel issues. I have served as an organizational travel coordinator in which I was responsible for advising management on travel policies and requirements; ensuring funding was available for travel requests; and resolving routine travel issues. I have supported travel program activities, e.g. advising management and employees on travel requirements; reviewing travel requests for accuracy and completeness; and tracking travel spending. None of the above. 4 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your experience conducting studies on a travel management program to determine its effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience conducting studies to assess a travel management program's effectiveness. I have education or training in conducting studies to assess a travel management program's effectiveness, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have conducted studies on a travel management program to assess its effectiveness under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have independently conducted studies to assess a travel management program and recommended viable solutions to travel management issues. I am highly skilled at conducting studies to assess a travel management program's effectiveness without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems in a work environment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience solving problems on work-related issues. I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in problem solving, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. 6 Please select the response that BEST describes your highest level of experience in applying travel laws, regulations, policies, and procedures Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have gained knowledge of the travel laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures through formal education or training, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have formal education and/or training that is relevant. I have experience in performing this task on the job. I perform this task routinely without supervision. I have education and/or training and experience performing this task on the job . My work is monitored closely by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance. This task is a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance. 7 From the following list of problem-solving activities, please identify those you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Identified a problem and its cause. Anticipated a problem and implemented a procedure to avoid the problem. Recommended an improvement in procedures with options for implementation. Worked closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. None of the above. 8 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed that demonstrate your knowledge of administrative laws, rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Made travel arrangements. Prepared travel orders. Applied security procedures / protocols (e.g., storage of classified information, use of classified systems or equipment). Developed or implemented evacuation policies, procedures and/or guidelines. Developed or implemented emergency preparedness guidelines. None of the above. 9 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of official travel? Answer to this question is required Coordinating travelers` requirements and / or special needs Assisting with Passport Applications Preparing Travel Itineraries Making hotel / car rental reservations Sending telegrams to relevant embassies for country clearance Creating travel authorizations / close out of travel authorizations Reconciling travel advances Providing on-site support during official visits Serving on advance teams to secure hotel accommodations Resolving complex or high-profile issues Screening volunteer staff for official travel events None of the above 10 Which of the following statements most accurately describes your experience dealing with travel related issues. Answer to this question is required I have applied official travel regulations and policies to resolve routine issues. I have researched and applied official travel regulations to resolve complex issues. I have researched and applied official travel regulations to resolve complex issues, and identified areas where policies or regulations are insufficient. I have researched and applied official travel regulations to resolve complex issues, and drafted procedures or guidance to guide others on official travel matters. I have researched and applied official travel regulations to resolve complex issues, and drafted official policies on official travel matters. None of the above. 11 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied your knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes None of the above 12 Which of the following activities have you performed in support of travel management activities? Answer to this question is required Stayed abreast of changes to automated travel applications, e.g. Travel Manager. Reviewed changes to travel policies or regulations for their impact on travel operations. Maintained / updated travel databases tracking traveler information, budgets, and allotments. Resolved financial issues with appropriate officials. None of the above. 13 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of official travel? Answer to this question is required Coordinating travelers` requirements and / or special needs Assisting with Passport Applications Preparing Travel Itineraries Making hotel / car rental reservations Sending telegrams to relevant embassies for country clearance Creating travel authorizations / close out of travel authorizations Reconciling travel advances Providing on-site support during official visits Serving on advance teams to secure hotel accommodations Resolving complex or high-profile issues Screening volunteer staff for official travel events None of the above 14 Please select the responses that describe your experience with travel. Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations. Made domestic travel reservations/arrangements and maintain record of itinerary. Arrange foreign travel reservations/arrangements and maintain record of itinerary. Make travel and hotel reservations for large meetings/conferences. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness and resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system. Prepare travel vouchers. None of the above 15 Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with travel arrangements and authorizations. Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. Made domestic travel reservations / arrangements. Made international travel reservations / arrangements. Made hotel reservations. Made cargo reservations. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using an automated voucher system. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.