Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 2 Please select all responses that describe your experience in locating and compiling information for reports/briefings. Answer to this question is required Gather materials to be routed for information or to be distributed at recurring meetings. Compile factual information from sources within assigned work area. Check indices of central systems for very specific information. Present information in logical fashion. Collect, compile, and retrieve information from various sources within an organization. Compile relevant information and present it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others. None of the above. 3 I have extensive experience in the following: Answer to this question is required Complex financial auditing Financial management None of the above 4 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 5 From the following list of customer service skills, please identify those that you have routinely used: Answer to this question is required I listen to and question customers to obtain their requirements. I maintain regular contact with customers. I resolve customer complaints and concerns for the best possible outcome. I use creative thinking to suggest effective resolutions to customer's problems. I bring customers together with appropriate resources people to move their project ahead. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.