Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience providing administrative support to senior executives within a fast-paced team environment with changing priorities? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 2 Which tasks have you performed to communicate and process information? Answer to this question is required Summarized and reconciled financial data. Planned and monitored the use of expenditures and prepared financial documents and reports. Collected and analyzed data. Conveyed information and ideas through a variety of sources. Interpreted and applied written policies and procedures. Analyzed policies concerning operating programs and recommended management proposals to enhance the productivity of the work environment. None of the above. 3 How have you addressed substantive problems characterized by complex, controversial, and/or sensitive matters? Answer to this question is required Determined the breadth and scope of research required. Established and/or applied analytical processes and procedures to identify/isolate the problem, issue, or concern. Analyzed disputed vague facts and/or information that was vigorously challenged. Validated disputed methods, approaches, and principles. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical or management reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 5 Do you have experience scheduling a high volume of meetings and travel and anticipating the needs of managers helping them stay focused on their projects by avoiding operational and administrative issues before they occur? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 6 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above. 7 Which types of technical or management reports have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports Financial reports Data justification reports (non-financial) Performance accountability reports Data interpretation/research reports (other than for performance accountability) None of the above 8 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 9 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. 10 Select all software programs in which you have "strong" knowledge and capability using? Answer to this question is required Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) Presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) Spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) Publishing software (e.g., Microsoft Publisher, Adobe PageMaker) Diagramming software (e.g., Microsoft Visio) Web-based collaboration software (e.g., SharePoint) Project tracking software (e.g., Microsoft Project) None of the above 11 Which tasks have you performed with Microsoft Visio? Answer to this question is required I created flowcharts I created organizational charts I created diagrams from a template. I transformed text and tables into visual diagrams. 12 Which tasks have you performed with Microsoft (MS) Access? Answer to this question is required I located tables. I entered data. I corrected data. I ran reports / queries. I exported data. None of the above. 13 Do you have experience processing personnel action requests using the NFC EmpowHR Human Resources Information System? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select the statement that reflects your highest level of experience with Human Capital Management procedures (recruitment and retention) and Employee Engagement (benefits and awards). Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Do you have experience supporting human capital program processes, including recruitment and retention and the processing of employee benefits similar to paid parental leave or family medical leave act applications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.