Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 [338] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [73885] In response to question number 338, please answer the following questions. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience collecting and/or compiling transportation-related data to be used in planning transportation needs for a community; AND experience communicating with others to gather and discuss or present data. This experience is well described in my application. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [62866] Select the response that best defines how you qualify for the Community Planner Series. Answer to this question is required I have been awarded a degree in community planning. I have provided my transcripts for verification. I have been awarded a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. I have provided my transcripts for verification. I have been awarded a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration. I have provided my transcripts for verification. Although I do not have at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, I have at least one year of work experience in community planning that was acquired while under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. This time is clearly described in my resume. 3.1 [62863] Please provide&nbsp;the dates that support your response. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have a combination of education that included at least at least 24 semester hours in urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration with at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance, plus experience in the planning field that qualifies me for the series. I have not received a qualifying degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of these options required to qualify for the community planning series. Grade: 09 1 [30209] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [73886] In response to question number 30209, please answer the following questions. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience using planning principles, methods, and practices to correlate data and follow an operation through a series of related detailed steps or processes in fact gathering or analysis; AND experience conducting studies of the physical, social, and/or economic factors which are characteristic of a small community or a project area in a community; AND experience preparing summaries, narrative statements, and analyses of the pertinent technical facts reported in project studies. This matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. 2.1 [73593] In 500 words or less, please describe how your experience and/or education aligns with the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) within the announcement for the grade(s) you are applying to.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [62866] Select the response that best defines how you qualify for the Community Planner Series. Answer to this question is required I have been awarded a degree in community planning. I have provided my transcripts for verification. I have been awarded a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. I have provided my transcripts for verification. I have been awarded a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration. I have provided my transcripts for verification. Although I do not have at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, I have at least one year of work experience in community planning that was acquired while under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. This time is clearly described in my resume. 3.1 [62863] Please provide&nbsp;the dates that support your response. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have a combination of education that included at least at least 24 semester hours in urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration with at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance, plus experience in the planning field that qualifies me for the series. I have not received a qualifying degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of these options required to qualify for the community planning series. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 6 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).