Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades 1 Select the work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Designs studies to assess information technology capabilities to meet new business strategies or mission requirements. Develops new approaches to resolve very difficult technical problems or controversial issues. Develops strategies to maximize existing and developing technologies. Develops operating, reporting and service procedures for telecommunication program. Develops technical strategies for major long term telecommunication. Develops information technology program policies and standards. Develops briefing papers for senior management on systems performance, upgrades and status. Develops graphic designs, narrations, charts and other means of communication. Develops telecommunication system evaluation methods. None of the above. 2 Which of the following choices best describes your experience working with Database Administrators to design, develop and/or update databases as they relate to web applications? Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience working with Database Administrators in designing, developing and/or updating databases as they relate to web applications I have database administration experience, and have designed, developed and/or updated databases as they relate to web applications I have instructed others to work with Database Administrators to design, develop and/or update databases as they relate to web applications I have worked with Database Administrators to design, develop and/or update databases as they relate to web applications 3 With which of the following IT topics do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Cloud implementations and development Business Process Automation (BPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Advanced simulations Software architecture Enterprise architecture SecDevOps Agile software development Secure Software Development Life Cycle (SSDLC) Application security Static code analysis Dynamic application security testing UX / UI Open source Source control Large-scale application and/or data migrations Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) integration Mobile application development Data analysis SQL queries Technical documentation None of the above 4 Select the statement which BEST reflect your experience with the design, development, implementation, and management of database applications. Answer to this question is required I have collected functional requirements and business rules which dictate the operation of a database application from other IT professionals. I have collected functional requirements and business rules which dictate the operation of a database application from the intended users of the database application. I have provided technical updates via oral and written communication on the progress of the design, development, implementation, and management of database applications to management. I have created end-user guides and/or instruction manuals on the functioning of the database application. I have written status reports for management on technical database related projects. I have designed and created sophisticated relational databases for implementation. None of the above 5 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government Officials Senior Corporate Officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government Organizations Private Industry Technical Experts Professional Organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) Media Representatives Foreign Government Officials General Public None of the Above 6 Select the strategic planning, policy and evaluation activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Conducts evaluation of unit activities in relation to its goals and objectives. Establishes unit program and workload objectives. Makes changes in unit structure, procedures, etc., in order to improve effectiveness and efficiency. Directs or manages the incorporation of requirements for new technology, hardware, software, and human resources into long-range and short-range plans. Reviews and evaluates the effectiveness of policies and procedures. Integrates internal and external program and policy issues into long-range plans. Implements policies, standards and procedures regarding the maintenance of LAN / WAN infrastructure. Develops policies, procedures and strategies that ensure optimization and integration in the installation, configuration and maintenance of telecommunications networks. Develops long-and short-range plans for the unit. Recommends initiatives to improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of telecommunications applications. Develops contingency plans and operating procedures for the unit. None of the above. 7 Which of the following project management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in project management. Inception. Development. Budgeting. Justification. Monitoring. Close-out. I have been involved in the development of a project plan. I have been involved in the implementation of a project plan. I have led the development of a project plan. I have led the implementation of a project plan. I have participated in the justification of a project. I have participated in an economic analysis and feasibility study. None of the above. 8 With which of the following technologies do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Microsoft SharePoint Microsoft Power Automate Microsoft Power Apps Microsoft SharePoint Framework Microsoft Graph Microsoft PowerShell Microsoft Visual Studio Microsoft Azure DevOps Google Suite / Google Sites Git / GitHub Micro Focus Solutions Business Manager (SBM) ServiceNow SalesForce Microsoft Power BI Tableau Desktop / Server R Studio / R Shiny Microsoft Dynamics None of the above 9 I have managed a major software project involving automation of an existing paper process used throughout the agency. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with COTS software packages. I have experience with using COTS software packages. I have experience in software development and design using COTS software packages. I have experience in software development and design involving modification of a COTS package. I have experience in software development and design involving major modification of a COTS package. 10 I have experience designing and/or conducting analytical evaluations of: Answer to this question is required Program systems using System Analysis Techniques Contract Administration / Management systems Terms & Conditions Service Level Agreements (SLA) Office Level Agreements (OLA) Work processes Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Standard Operating Environment (SOE) Common Operating Enviornment (COE) Resources utilization Records management Contract Management Inventory Assessments IT Asset Management None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.