Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 2 Which of the following tasks have you accomplished as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and manage projects through completion Established and monitor project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitor performance Anticipated and resolved problems None of the above 3 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 4 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 5 In which of the following stages of the security clearance process have you been involved? Answer to this question is required Gathering investigative information through interviews and reviewing personal records in order to provide basis for a security clearance determination. Ensuring all documents are properly completed and logged into a tracking system such as JPAS or EQIP for an adjudicator to review. Reviewed documents and interviews retrieved from a system such as JPAS or EQIP in order to make a final determination on a security clearance. I have no experience the security clearance process. 6 Which of the following duties have you routinely performed in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance? Answer to this question is required Retrieved a Report of Investigation from a centralized web based system. Ensured that investigative leads are complete. Wrote an analysis on findings from a review of reports of investigation. Formulated a written recommendation for a final determination on a security clearance. I have not performed any of the above duties in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating verbally? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from the Department, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 8 Select the one response that BEST describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management: Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information, and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g., staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 10 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 11 Please indicate which of the following areas you have quantitative / qualitative analysis skills: Answer to this question is required Quantitative analysis: statistics / modeling / surveys Developing hypotheses Evaluating information sources Identifying trends and patterns in behavior / activities / events Identifying independent and dependent variables None of the above 12 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.