Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Do you have journey-level experience performing troubleshooting, testing, installation, maintenance and repairs to Fire Protection Systems without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 12 1 Do you have journey-level experience performing troubleshooting, testing, installation, maintenance and repairs to Fire Protection Systems without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of electronic equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electronic equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 2 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing fire alarm equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of fire alarm equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of fire alarm equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience independently using a computerized work order system to manage assigned work responsibilities. Answer to this question is required I tracked the status of computerized work orders to prioritize jobs and monitor systems for problems. I created and updated computerized work orders to document the work performed by other employees. I retrieved computerized work orders created by others to document the work I performed. I printed paper copies of computerized work orders that were created by others to perform my work. I have not used a computerized work order system. 4 Have you run cable to connect fire alarm devices to a fire alarm system? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you run conduit to connect fire alarm devices and systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you done maintenance work in a historic building? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Have you done construction work in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following fire alarm system devices have you installed? Answer to this question is required Smoke Detectors Flow Switches Tamper Switches Manual Pull Stations Beam Detectors Duct Smoke Detectors None of the above 9 Do you have experience collaborating with engineers to identify and apply new methods to resolve installation or maintenance problems? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Do you have experience communicating new methods or updates to job-related standards to others to inform them of the most recent practices and approaches? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 List the title of each license/certification you hold and the date each was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Have you maintained fire alarm systems in buildings larger than 500,000 square feet? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility testing fire alarm systems? Answer to this question is required I have not tested fire alarm systems. I have completed training or education related to testing fire alarm systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the testing of fire alarm systems. I have tested fire alarm systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently tested fire alarm systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 14 For which reasons have you used electronic test equipment? Answer to this question is required Assessing the voltage levels Testing fiber optic cable for continuity Assessing amperage/resistance levels Measuring footage (e.g., to determine length/footage of cable run) Troubleshooting electronic boards/systems Testing to de-energize circuits to safely work on None of the above 15 Which tools have you used to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Ammeters/Amp Probes Frequency Counters/Meters IR light Meters Ohmmeters Oscilloscopes OTDRs RF Power Meters RF Spectrum Analyzers Tone Generators Voltmeters None of the Above 16 Which tools have you used to install, maintain, or repair electronic equipment or circuitry? Answer to this question is required Wire cutters Wire splitters Soldering irons Micro-soldering irons None of the above 17 Which steps have you taken to troubleshoot electronic issues reported by others? Answer to this question is required Disconnecting the device Hooking up a signal level meter Looking for service quality and level Visually inspecting equipment for breaks Replacing a jack Replacing a broken cable Recommending the next steps to take to the customer/client (e.g., requesting a new TV, procuring a new power cord) Using another outlet to confirm equipment the outage or need for repair None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.