Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 GS-07: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your education as it relates to the basic eligibility requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND have a grade-point average of "B" (3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND have a grade-point average of "B+" (3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of your undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND ranked in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND are a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. I do not meet the above education requirement described for this announcement. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 7 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 8 Rate your experience communicating complex and technical program information by a variety of means including in person, over the telephone, and in writing both on-line and in traditional correspondence. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in communicating complex or technical information. Novice - I have communicated program information informally to individuals or in meetings. Intermediate - I have developed written material that communicated complex and technical information with the guidance of a supervisor and presented the information to others within the organization, and answered questions about this information. Advanced - I have independently developed written material that communicated complex and technical program information and presented that information to a wide variety of stakeholders and satisfactorily answered detailed questions related to this technical information. 9 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation/ graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical/ quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Desktop publishing None of the above 10 From the list below, identify the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency groups Civic Organizations None of the above 11 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best reflects your experience conducting program research to solve problems and aid in decision-making? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have both formal education/ training in this area and work experience in this area. I have formal education/training and extensive on the job experience in this area. None of the above. 13 Which choices BEST describe your experience interacting with others in the workplace? Answer to this question is required I regularly interacted with managers and employees within my organization. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I regularly justified, persuaded, and negotiated with others to resolve matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This required interacting with a full range of internal and external individuals (i.e., those within my Agency, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staff, officials of foreign governments). I regularly participated in workgroups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This required interacting with others who were skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired outcome (e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This required influencing or motivating others who were working toward mutual goals and had cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 14 Which of the following sources have you used to conduct research? Answer to this question is required Internet Electronic databases Periodicals Books Regulatory / statutory materials Interviews Multi-media Original sources Surveys None of the above 15 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan and organize to meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have assessed and improved the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations in the office to meet deadlines. I have determined the order of processing for a wide range of related office activities in order to meet deadlines. I have coordinated and scheduled a variety of related office activates to avoid conflicts and ensure that predetermined deadlines are met. I have planned daily work activities to meet deadlines. I have no experience in performing this task. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the criteria described above that defines you as a student? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently enrolled or formally accepted (with the intent to attend) for enrollment as a half-time or full-time student into an accredited high school, home school program, technical/vocational institution, college or university in a degree seeking program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I currently hold a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale. Answer to this question is required True False 4 What year will you be graduating from your academic program? Answer to this question is required Fall 2023 Spring 2024 Fall 2024 Spring 2025 Fall 2025 Spring 2026 Fall 2026 Spring 2027 Fall 2027 Spring 2028 Fall 2028 Spring 2029 Fall 2029 Spring 2030 Fall 2030 None of the above 5 Will you be at least 16 years of age by the closing date of this announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you able to work year-round in the specified location as advertised on the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.