Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Please provide examples of your qualifying experience which supports your response. (Do not paste your resume in this space.) Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Select each program area for which you have developed policy or guidance: Answer to this question is required Disciplinary and adverse actions Unacceptable performance actions Performance management programs Leave administration programs Employee assistance programs Violence in the workplace programs Employee recognition programs Federal Benefits programs Federal Retirement programs Personnel Security programs Workers Compensation programs None of the above 4 Choose the response that BEST describes your experience writing reports, instructions, correspondence, or procedures: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 5 Which of the following have you performed in a human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Researching, compiling, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data. Developing recommendations / options based upon analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Presenting findings and recommendations in writing and orally, based on analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Analyzing and evaluating on a quantitative and qualitative basis the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Researching new or improved business and management practices for application to programs or operations. Developing new or modified administrative program goals, objectives and/or procedures. Identifying and analyzing data required for use in the management of programs. Performing analytical studies that involve highly significant programs and policy matters. None of the Above 6 Choose the statement that BEST describes your ability to independently provide management with concise and complete analyses, options, proposals and prototype programs related to HR policy initiatives and new programs: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 7 Which of the following describes your level of experience developing human resource policies and standard operating procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Choose the statement that BEST describes your experience keeping abreast of new laws, regulations, and policies: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 9 Please indicate which of the following written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources environment. Answer to this question is required I have written issue papers or position papers, including analyses and recommendations, on significant and complex HR issues. I have written policy guidance on HR issues. I have written the agency`s responses or requests to OPM, or other third-parties (for example, testimony or responses to litigation), on complex HR topics. I have written presentations or briefing materials, including "talking points" for senior officials, on complex HR topics. I have written HR policies and agency-wide guidelines on staffing issues. I have reviewed written material and suggested improvements for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. My written products have been recognized as high quality, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your level of experience analyzing, researching and interpreting a wide variety of Federal human resource laws, rules, and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 I have provided advisory services to employees on the following federal benefits and programs: Answer to this question is required Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB) Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Voluntary Leave Transfer Program Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) Retirement Plans Transit Subsidy Program Employee Assistant Programs (EAP) Leave Donations Other Federal benefits (e.g., Long Term Disability) None of the above 12 Please select the choice that BEST describes your experience providing frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommending solutions to problems: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 13 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization's mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest based manner, demonstrating a faculty for comprise without sacrificing goals. None of the above 14 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have assisted in administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders under close supervision. I have independently administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I am considered an expert in training and developing new or junior employees. I have trained others in this activity and/or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 15 Develop or give data requirement inputs to assist in the development of automated systems approaches for presenting HR reports to management: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 16 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 17 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.