Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 I have knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodologies of work in the colleciton, analysis, evaluation, interpretation, and dissemination of information in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Criminal Justice Intelligence Counterintelligence Counterterrorism Cyber Crimes Cultural / Geographic Studies Economics Political Science Psychology Physical Science Environment Law Sociology Science Military International Affairs None of the above 2 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 3 Select the choices that describe investigative techniques which you have used in performing work assignments: Answer to this question is required Following leads Researching records Preparing reports Contacting or interviewing to obtain information Searching for physical or documentary evidence or clues Using evidence to substantiate findings or conclusions Examining records to detect links in a chain of evidence or information None of the above 4 Select the analysis or problem solving tasks you have performed as a regular part of the job in your previous positions: Answer to this question is required Analyzed a large amount of inter-related and unrelated facts and opinions to obtain relevant information. Analyzed case files, documentation, reports and official orders. Collected, reviewed and/or analyzed unclassified and classified intelligence data. Made recommendations to improve or ensure conformance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, standards and/or guidelines. Monitored the status of cases, programs, or other official matters; and reviewed, audited or evaluated same in order to ensure requirements or recommendations were implemented. None of the above 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goals. None of the above. 6 From the list of investigative writings below, select those that you have personally drafted. Answer to this question is required Interview write up Prosecutorial summary Report of Investigation Memo of conversation / Note to file / spot report Affidavit in support of criminal complaint Affidavit in support of a search warrant Article for trade publication Tactical plan Investigative plan None of the above 7 Select the actions you have taken or accomplishments that reflect your capabilities in analysis or problem solving: Answer to this question is required Applied a formal and disciplined approach to research and investigation assignments. Promoted a greater degree of evidenced based decision making in team projects. Analyzed similar and divergent information in order to reach a summary conclusion. Took action to probe more deeply and verify apparent contradictory information in order to ensure accurate conclusions. Produced final products that were factually based, detailed and accurate. Recognized by colleagues or supervisors colleagues for producing final products that exhibit precision, accuracy, discipline, internal consistency and integrity. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.