Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you possess a valid Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Remote Pilot Certificate with a small Unmanned Aircraft Systems ( UAS) rating? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience managing an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program. I have education and training in an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) systems, but have not yet performed any aspect of it on the job. I have managed an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have managed an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 2 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience providing project management oversight of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) program (i.e., defining the project scope, material estimates, funding and logistical requirements, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program. I have education and training in an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) systems, but have not yet performed any aspect of it on the job. I have managed an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have managed an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 3 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience with the assessment and evaluation of operational vulnerabilities associated with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 4 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience recommending mitigation strategies regarding the vulnerabilities of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 5 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience recommending upgrades and/or enhancements to maximize the effectiveness and functionality of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 6 Which of the following have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and managed projects through completion Established and monitored project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitored performance Anticipated and resolved problems None of the above 7 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of advancements and experience with program analysis and implementation within the aviation field? Answer to this question is required I have no formal education, training, or experience in aviation program analysis and implementation. I possess knowledge of current advancements in the aviation field and have received formal education or training on how to evaluate the impact of those advancements on programs. I possess knowledge of current advancements in the aviation field and have experience evaluating the impact of those advancements on programs. I possess knowledge of current advancements in the aviation field, have experience evaluating the impact of those advancements on programs and have developed systematic methods for program execution, evaluation or advocacy. I possess knowledge of current advancements in the aviation field, have experience evaluating the impact of those advancements on programs, have developed systematic methods for program execution, evaluation or advocacy and have ensured the effective compliance 8 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 9 Which of the following choices BEST represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have produced a white paper or decision memo that interpreted findings in a larger context. I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to decide on a specific issue. I have conducted technology-related studies and/or estimates to facilitate a decision. I have collected and organized data relevant to a specific issue. I have interpreted operational logs in order to diagnose abnormalities. I have assisted others in interpreting operational logs in order to diagnose abnormalities. None of the above. 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures Directives Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 11 In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 12 Which of the following aviation maintenance-related documents have you researched, coordinated, and/or prepared? Answer to this question is required Standardized flight training policies, regulations, manuals, or procedures for U.S. Armed Forces or Civil Aviation training programs. Aircraft Maintenance Test Flight training documents for U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. Civil Aviation training programs. Aviation Standardization and Safety Programs for U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. Civil Aviation. Standardized academic training documents and/or programs of instruction for U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. Civil Aviation Maintenance training programs. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience developing standard operating procedures on the proper use, care, maintenance, and preventative maintenance of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 14 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience with hands-on operator training on the proper use, care, maintenance, and preventative maintenance of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Systems? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 15 Which of the following types of technical aviation-related documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Aviation Training Programs of Instruction (POI) Aviation Contract Statements of Work (SOW) Aviation Contract Technical Requirements Documents Contract Technical Directives Contract Task Orders Requests for Proposals (RFP) Requests for Quotes (RFQ) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.