Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of Federal contracting and grant laws, regulations, principles, policies, and procedures to develop and issue solicitations and contracts.** Applied knowledge of Federal contracting and Grant laws, regulations, and policies to direct a major acquisition operation.&nbsp; This includes establishing and maintaining accurate and current policies to ensure compliance with Federal policies and regulations and applicable legal and ethical guidelines for private sector and/or federal government. Answer to this question is required Provided in-depth technical and administrative oversight and direction for a segment of a major contracting and grant making operation. Oversaw and reported on the effectiveness of operational policies and procedures covering all functional areas of procurement, to include acquisition planning; evaluation, negotiation, and source selection; and contract administration. Implemented guidelines and procedures and interprets policy for subordinate contracting staff and clients. Procurements range from commercial and simplified acquisitions to complex multi-year and multi-agency contracts. Oversaw a segment of a major contracting and grant making operation. Oversaw operational policies and procedures covering all functional areas of procurement, to include acquisition planning; evaluation, negotiation, and source selection; and contract administration. Implemented guidelines and procedures and interprets policy for contracting staff and clients. Procurements range from commercial and simplified acquisitions to complex multi-year and multi-agency contracts. Provided general technical and administrative oversight and direction for a segment of a major contracting and grant making operation. Executed operational policies and procedures covering all functional areas of procurement, to include acquisition planning; evaluation, negotiation, and source selection; and contract administration. Provides guidance for contracting staff and clients. Procurements range from commercial and simplified acquisitions to complex multi-year and multi-agency contracts. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of acquisition systems planning, development and deployment.** Planned, developed, tested, deployed, maintained, and updated systems related to contracts and grants, to include acquisition planning; contract and grant writing, evaluation, negotiation, and award; administration; reporting and data visualization; and customer relationship management / help desk. Answer to this question is required As a principle job responsibility, led a team in the planning, development, testing, implementation, maintenance, and update of contract and grant writing, data visualization, web sites, and customer relations / help desk applications. Experience includes engagement in lifecycle of application planning, deployment, and maintenance and demonstrable improvements over previous processes and information. Provided direct support to a team in developing, testing, and maintaining contract and grant writing, data visualization, web sites, and customer relations / help desk applications. Experience includes key aspects of application lifecycle with initiatives to improve acquisition information and processes. Experience supporting contract and grant related applications with engagement in key aspects of application lifecycle to improve acquisition information and processes. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing .** Wrote clear, accurate, and thorough written documents related to acquisition operations, including: 1) acquisition strategies, 2) procurement and grants policies, 3) audit response action plans, 4) human capital plans, 5) Inter-agency agreements and memoranda of understanding, 6) organizational gap analyses, 7) contract terms and conditions, and 8) internal control and risk assessments. Answer to this question is required Wrote, reviewed and edited materials relating to acquisition operations, including ALL of the documents above. Documents had an impact across multiple agencies. Wrote, reviewed and and edited materials relating to acquisition operations, including FIVE (5) to SEVEN (7) of the documents listed above. Documents had an impact across multiple organizational elements within an agency. Wrote, reviewed and and edited materials relating to acquisition operations, including FOUR (4) of the documents listed above. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to supervise and lead an acquisition workforce. Led and managed a staff in an Acquisition environment and in doing so, performed the following activities: &nbsp;1) identified current and future staffing needs based on organizational goals, objectives, and capacity gaps; 2) recruited and hired staff to meet those needs; 3) communicated performance expectations to staff; 4) conducted periodic performance evaluations; 5) provided advice and counsel to staff; 6) addressed performance and disciplinary issues; 7) planned, assigned, and delegated work with appropriate follow through to ensure results; 8) provided appropriate training and professional development opportunities to staff; 9) obtained staff participation in planning and decision making; and 10) identified and implemented methods to improve staff productivity. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience in managing a professional Acquisition Workforce within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised ALL of the activities listed above. Has extensive experience in managing a professional Acquisition Workforce within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised AT LEAST NINE (9) of the activities listed above. Has extensive experience in managing a professional Acquisition Workforce within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised AT LEAST EIGHT (8) of the activities listed above. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to award and administer grants. Planned, awarded, and administered grants and cooperative agreements, monitored cost, risks, performance, and the close-out of completed projects. Answer to this question is required Provided expert and final authoritative guidance at the highest level on grants that were broad in scope, involved several concurrent phases, and were largely undefined. Developed new concepts, theories, or programs that influenced agency or organizational procedures. Managed grants requiring extensive and complex planning and coordination that required responsiveness to continuing changes in programs or to technological developments. Managed grants and made decisions on priorities and implementation schedules. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).