Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [7023] Have you ever worked in a position which required you to perform repairs on equipment or parts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [5679] Are you familiar with and have demonstrated ability and knowledge of wiring methods and their application according to the National Electric Code and Standard Industry practices? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [4688] Select the electrical power systems with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required 12 VDC (Voltage Direct Current) - 24 VDC 110 VDC 220 VDC 110 VAC (Voltage Alternating Current) 220 VAC 440 VAC 4160 VAC 13.2 KV (Kilo-volt) None of the above 5 [1034] Choose the statement that best characterize your ability to work with electrical equipment such as wiring motors, control equipment and communications equipment. Answer to this question is required Ability to install, maintain, and repair it with general supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it, but only under close supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it on my own, independently, without supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair independently, plus the ability to provide technical directions or training to lower-level workers on how to do the work properly. None of the above 6 [8951] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in troubleshooting to determine the nature and extent of repairs necessary, materials or parts needed. Answer to this question is required I have done little to no troubleshooting on the job. I have had study or training in troubleshooting, but have not applied it on the job. I have used my knowledge or training in troubleshooting, but I have been closely supervised. I have applied my knowledge and/or experience in troubleshooting on my own, with little to no immediate supervision. I commonly troubleshoot on the job with no supervision. I supervise or train others in troubleshooting. 7 [1011] From the following list, please select the item(s) in which you have the knowledge and ability to install, maintain, and repair electrical equipment. Answer to this question is required Overhead power lines Underwater power cables High voltage cable splicing Installation of cable couplers Motors Control equipment Regulating equipment Generators Switchgear Electrical substations Transformers Wiring (power lines) None of the above 8 [2638] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience gathering and exchanging information in person. Answer to this question is required I have experience making college classroom presentations or defending a thesis; OR I have experience communicating with others within my work organization to gather and exchange information. I have experience communicating with others both within and outside of my work organization to gather and exchange information. I have experience communicating with others both within and outside of my work organization to gather and exchange information, resolve issues, and gain or secure compliance. I have experience communicating with others both within and outside of my work organization to gather and exchange information, resolve issues, negotiate changes and compliance, and to explain policies, standards, and procedures. I have experience communicating with others both within and outside of my work organization to provide leadership and guidance in my field, to make program decisions and policy interpretations, to resolve significant and controversial issues, to negotiate compliance and agreements, and to persuade others to accept new approaches, concepts, and programs. I have experience communicating with others both within and outside of my work organization to provide leadership and guidance in my field, to make program decisions and policy interpretations, to resolve significant and controversial issues, to negotiate compliance and agreements, to persuade others to accept new approaches, concepts, and programs. I have also made presentations at conferences and conducted training related to my discipline. I have no education, training, or experience in this area. 9 [928] Please select the statement that best describes your working knowledge of electrical technical practices. Answer to this question is required Knowledge of the proper methods and sequences for laying out routing, placement, type, size, gauge, balance, load and continuity of electrical lines and circuits. Knowledge of the proper routing, placement and size of electrical lines and circuits. Possess some knowledge of routing, placement and size of electrical lines and circuits. None of the above 10 [11134] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to identify electrical components and symbols. Answer to this question is required Able to read and interpret under general supervisory guidance. Able to read and interpret on my own, independently, without supervision. Able to generate wiring diagrams for others to use. Not able to read and interpret; unable to use. 11 [1007] From the following list, please select the item(s) in which you have the ability to read and interpret circuit diagrams, electrical blueprints, schematics and identify components and symbols. Answer to this question is required Ability to use wiring diagrams Ability to follow simple circuit diagrams Ability to use schematics and block diagrams Ability to use assembly drawings showing how parts fit together Ability to use blueprints Ability to identify electrical components and symbols Ability to read and comprehend technical installation, maintenance and operation manuals. None of the above 12 [52652] Select the statement that best describes your experience in installing and replacing fuses, breakers, disconnecting switches and power panels up to 480 volts. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 13 [11136] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to read, interpret and use electrical blueprints. Answer to this question is required Able to read and interpret under general supervisory guidance. Able to read and interpret on my own, independently, without supervision. Able to generate wiring diagrams for others to use. Not able to read and interpret; unable to use. 14 [1067] Select the option that best describes your electrical and mechanical background. Answer to this question is required I have little to no experience in either mechanical or electrical fields or related fields. I have experience in a mechanical or mechanical related field, as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. I have experience in an electrical or electrical related field, as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. I have experience in either mechanical or electrical fields or related fields as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with supervision. I have experience in both mechanical and electrical fields or related fields as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. 15 [52650] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience doing lock/out and tag/out of electrical equipment according to OSHA regulations. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 16 [3634] Select the type(s)of safety training you have successfully completed. Answer to this question is required Ladder/scaffold Fall Protection Respiratory Protection Overhead Crane Operation Crane Signaling Hazard Communication (HazCom) Lifting/Back Protection Asbestos Lead Confined Space Lock Out/Tag Out Small Craft Operator/Rules of the Road None of the above 17 [1020] From the following list, please select the area(s) in which you have knowledge of electrical and electronic theory and work experience using the instruments. Answer to this question is required Ohnmeter Ohm`s law Phase meter Direct current Anmeter Tone detector Voltmeter KW power meter Series and parallel circuitry Live line test equipment. Alternating current None of the above. 18 [2103] Select the response that best characterizes your knowledge and experience with Impressed Current Cathodic Protection (ICCP) systems. Answer to this question is required I am able to install, maintain, and repair ICCP systems, but only under close supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair ICCP systems, with general supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair ICCP systems, independently, without supervision. In addition to being able to install, maintain, and repair ICCP systems, I provide technical directions and/or training to lower-level workers on the operation of ICCP systems and the theory behind them. None of the above 19 [2104] Select the statement that best characterizes your knowledge of and experience with Dehumidification theory and systems operation. Answer to this question is required I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems, but only under close supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems with general supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems on my own, independently, without supervision. In addition to being able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems, I provide technical direction and/or training to lower-level workers on the operation of and theory behind Dehumidification systems. None of the above 20 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 21 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 22 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 25 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 27 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 28 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 29 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 30 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 31 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 32 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 32.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 32.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 32.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).