Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 4 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and/or monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. None of the above. 5 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 6 Which of the following leadership responsibilities have you performed in a work unit or as part of a team assignment? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Allocating resources. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Delegating responsibilities. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience in performing forensic evaluations to assess personnel for their capacity to obtain and maintain a security clearance? Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of applicable statutes and authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or knowledge of applicable statutes or authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted comprehensive and complex security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the handling, control, storage and safeguarding of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the construction of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF). I have processed, investigated and adjudicated security infractions and violations, including mishandling of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have developed methodology and procedures for establishing, operating and assessing the effectiveness of a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Security Program in accordance with Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations. 9 In which of the following stages of the security clearance process have you been involved? Answer to this question is required Gathering investigative information through interviews and reviewing personal records in order to provide basis for a security clearance determination. Ensuring all documents are properly completed and logged into a tracking system such as JPAS or EQIP for an adjudicator to review. Reviewed documents and interviews retrieved from a system such as JPAS or EQIP in order to make a final determination on a security clearance. I have no experience in the security clearance process. 10 Select the types of investigative or compliance work products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Background files on pertinent intelligence information, analytical techniques and procedures for assessing intelligence information. Papers and documents relating to the interpretation of laws and regulations. Guidelines to increase the effectiveness of laws and regulations. Publications of notices in the Federal Register. Documents outlining opinions and findings and making substantive policy and/or operational recommendations to senior level officials. Diplomatic cables or other official `demarche` instruction. Letter for higher level signature that responds to all elements of a compliance case, including requirements for corrective action. Report of findings. Briefing materials on compliance and/or investigative issues. Tips or `how to` modules on the laws, regulations, office functions, policies and/or procedures. Audit or visit reports. None of the above. 11 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures Directives Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 12 From the following list, please identify those regulations with which you have worked. Answer to this question is required Executive Order 12333 Executive Order 12829 Executive Order 12958 Executive Order 12968 Executive Order 13526 Executive Order 13587 Director of Central Intelligence Directives (DCID) Intelligence Community Directives 503 Intelligence Community Directives 704 Intelligence Community Directives 705 Intelligence Community Policy Guidance (ICPG) Intelligence Community Policy Memoranda (ICPM) Intelligence Community Standards (ICS) Interagency Security Committee (ISC) Policies, Standards, and Best Practices Telephone Security Group Standards Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH), Overseas Security Policy Board Standards None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.