Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide reference and research services.** Provided reference and research services by: 1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; 2) evaluating user needs; 3) informing users of resources available at a library; 4) formulating search strategies; 5) executing search strategies using various library systems and resources; and 6) making appropriate referrals to related library collections and repositories. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, provided reference and research services related to geography and map collections through the execution of ALL of the above tasks. Independently or with minimal supervision, provided reference and research services related to geography and map collections through the execution of FIVE of the tasks listed above. Independently or with minimal supervision, executed ALL of the tasks listed above, for collections that did not include geography and map collection materials. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interact collaboratively and provide consultation and liaison services.** Interacted collaboratively and provided consultation and liaison services to provide or exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Interacted collaboratively and provided consultation and liaison services to provide and exchange information or knowledge related to cartographic and map collections. Information was shared through the provision of reference services AND through collaboration on projects and/or issues concerning cartographic collections. Interacted collaboratively and provided consultation and liaison services to provide and exchange information or knowledge related to cartographic and map collections. Information was shared through the provision of reference services OR through collaboration on projects and/or issues concerning cartographic collections. Interacted collaboratively and developed and maintained relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds, communicating specialized or technical information in a professional and/or an academic setting concerning specialized library collections. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of map librarianship. Demonstrated knowledge of map librarianship by: 1) providing instruction about cartographic resources for a general or specialized audience; 2) responding to queries using cartographic materials in a variety of formats and multiple reference sources; 3) providing reference and research services in person and virtually; and 4) developing research guides, cartobibliographies, and/or other finding aids for cartographic collections. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, performed ALL of the tasks listed above in a cultural or academic institution with a significant map and geography collection. Independently or with minimal supervision, performed TWO or THREE of the tasks listed above in a cultural or academic institution with a significant map and geography collection. Independently performed at least TWO of the tasks above in an academic environment, such as performing these tasks through coursework at the collegiate or graduate level. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Utilized integrated library systems and/or web scale discovery services and other technologies sufficient to carry out library or research functions; deliver customer services; and improve the efficiency of the work. This included: 1) searching, filtering, extracting, and merging information from library catalogs, databases, and data sources; 2) managing information using collaborative online tools; 3) disseminating and providing access to information; 4) designing, creating, populating, and maintaining tools for managing quantitative and qualitative information as well as digital scholarship tools; 5) creating subject guides; and 6) aggregating and presenting information to respond to user needs. Answer to this question is required Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including AT LEAST FIVE of the above to execute a broad range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including FOUR of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. Has demonstrated experience utilizing integrated library systems, web scale discovery services, and other technologies, including THREE of the above to execute a range of library reference and research services in an academic, library or equivalent professional setting. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to develop and manage library collections. Experience reviewing a variety of resources to recommend materials for acquisition to develop collections; evaluating the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisting in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or access of/to these materials. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision in an academic or professional library environment, demonstrated experience reviewing and recommending a variety of materials in the area of map librarianship for acquisition in order to develop collections, including print and digital materials; evaluating the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisting in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or access of/to these materials. Independently or with some supervision in an academic or professional library environment, demonstrated experience reviewing and recommending a variety of materials for acquisition in order to develop collections, evaluating the condition of collection materials, determining their quality and usefulness, and assisting in developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation and/or service of these materials. In an academic or professional library environment, demonstrated some experience reviewing a variety of sources to recommend acquisitions in order to develop collections in area(s) of subject responsibility; and evaluating the condition of collection materials. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared a variety of written communications such as: 1) reports, 2) formal and informal correspondence related to reference inquiries, 3) cartographic bibliographies and finding aids, 4) research guides, 5) articles, 6) collection evaluations, 7) presentations, and 8) project planning. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote AT LEAST SIX of the above, including 2). Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote FIVE of the above, including 2). Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote THREE or FOUR of the above, including 2). None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).