Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the federal budget process and financial management practices and procedures.** Performed federal budget work supporting one or more of the phases or systems involved in federal budget administration, as it relates to operations at the agency, departmental, OMB, and/or congressional level. This included experience serving as an advisor on budgetary matters related to 1) budget estimates, 2) reprogramming requests, 3) resource allocations, 4) justifications to ensure adequate funding for program coverage, 5) formulation of budget requests, 6) establishment, evaluation and monitoring of a budgetary system for the expenditure of federal funds, and 7) payroll forecasts for potential staff hires. Answer to this question is required Performed federal budget work supporting one or more phases or systems involved in federal budget administration, as it relates to operations at an agency, department, OMB, and/or congressional level, including serving as an advisor on ALL of the above. Performed federal budget work supporting one or more phases or systems involved in federal budget administration, as it relates to operations at an agency, department, OMB, and/or congressional level, including serving as an advisor on FIVE or SIX of the above. Performed federal budget work supporting one or more phases or systems involved in federal budget administration, as it relates to operations at an agency, department, OMB, and/or congressional level including serving as an advisor on FOUR of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interpret and analyze financial data, present findings, and propose solutions to budget and financial management issues.** Identified and gathered financial data from various sources, interpreted and analyzed the data, identified any irregularities or inconsistencies, presented findings and proposed solutions to resolve budget and financial management issues. Answer to this question is required Conducted financial analyses used to support changes in gift and trust funds, multi-year budgets, annual budget requests and organizational operating budgets, including those with multi source funds such as appropriated and non-appropriated funds and grants. Compiled, analyzed, and interpreted budget related statistical data to resolve budget and financial management issues. Conducted financial analyses used to support changes in multi-year budgets, annual budget requests and organizational operating budgets. Compiled, analyzed, and interpreted budget related statistical data to resolve budget and financial management issues. Conducted financial analyses used to support changes in annual and organizational operating budgets. Compiled, analyzed, and interpreted budget related statistical data from various sources to resolve budget and financial management issues. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Skill in utilizing information technology systems to perform financial analysis and to present budget data.** Utilized computer technology to perform financial analysis and report, and to present budget data. Technology included: 1) centralized automated financial management system(s) (e.g., Library of Congress Budgeting System (LCBS), Momentum); 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 3) presentations (e.g., PowerPoint); 4) automated report generating system(s) (e.g., Crystal Reports); 5) word processing; 6) human resources systems (e.g., Empower), and 7) database tools or business intelligence (e.g., MS Access). Answer to this question is required Used ALL of the above software systems to perform and support financial management activities in the federal sector. Used SIX of the above software systems, including 1), 2) and 4), to perform and support financial management activities in the federal sector. Used FOUR or FIVE of the above, including 1), 2) and 4), to perform and support financial management activities in the federal sector. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others. Worked cooperatively and developed professional relationships with decision-makers and their staffs to resolve budget and financial management problems and issues. This included actively seeking input and contributing own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Coordinated and integrated one or more AGENCY-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others, including decision makers and their staffs, holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. Coordinated and integrated one or more DIVISION or UNIT-WIDE efforts in a centralized environment, requiring collaboration with others, including decision makers and their staffs, holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. Coordinated and integrated one or more DIVISION or UNIT-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others, including decision makers and their staffs, holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote various clear, cogent, accurate, well organized and understandable documents related to budget management such as: 1) analytical reports (such as those containing multi-year comparisons and ad hoc statistical reports, 2) outcome analysis, 3) budget justifications, 4) budget reports, 5) fact sheets, 6) budget policies or instructions, 7) formal and informal correspondence, 8) written budget-related information and requests for a non-budget audience, and 9) annual and operating budgets. Answer to this question is required As the principal author, routinely wrote at least EIGHT (8) of the above, including 1) through 4). As the principal author, routinely wrote SEVEN (7) of the above, including items 1) through 4). As the principal author, routinely wrote SIX (6) of the above, including items 1) through 4). None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).