Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience with financial management? Answer to this question is required I have brought in resources to finance the work of an organization or unit. I have allocated resources throughout an organization. I have allocated resources throughout a major division. I have allocated resources throughout a work unit. I have set and kept to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have analyzed budgets presented to me for my review. I have no practical experience with financial management 2 Which of the following techniques and/or aspects of financial analysis that you have applied BEST illustrate your financial and analytical ability? Answer to this question is required Present value calculation. Discounted cash flow. Cost benefit analysis. Subdivision analysis. Sensitivity analysis. Discount rate development. Forecasting economic trends and variables. None of the above. 3 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 4 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence E-mails Research papers Technical reports Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) Statement of Work (SOW) Contract Solicitations Policy Guidance Budget Justification Congressional Correspondence Novation Agreements Trends and Market Analysis Cost Analysis Procurement Analysis None of the above 5 From the list below, identify all of the property management functions with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Property management Acquisition Receiving Identification Records Movement Storage Physical inventory Reports Consumption Utilization Maintenance of government property Subcontracting control Disposition Contract close-out None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.