Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of administrative management and support.** Provided administrative management and support to managers and supervisors in an organization: 1) interpreted and applied administrative policies and procedures covering internal operations; 2) provided administrative support in the area of Human Resources; 3) reviewed travel requests and vouchers for completeness, appropriateness and compliance with agency and federal regulations, and reviewed and handled travel related documents; 4) reviewed documents for compliance with instructions and ensured corrective actions were taken as needed; 5) scheduled and coordinated meetings and related logistics; 6) maintained various filing systems, including electronic systems; 7) reviewed and processed procurement paperwork, and 8) served as a liaison with various offices. Answer to this question is required Provided administrative management and support, and performed ALL of the activities listed above. Provided administrative management and support, and performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the activities listed above INCLUDING 1) THROUGH 4). Provided administrative management and support, and performed FIVE (5) of the activities listed above INCLUDING 1) THROUGH 4). None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Utilized technology to support administrative work for an organization, including: 1) personnel systems (e.g., EmpowHR), 2) financial systems (e.g., Momentum, eManagement), 3) time and attendance systems (e.g., GovTA), 4) word-processing (e.g., Word), 5) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 6) email, 7) electronic calendars, 8) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop), 9) Internet software (MS Edge, Firefox), and 10) various office equipment (e.g., digital copier, scanner, and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Independently used advanced features of ALL of the above technologies to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. Routinely used BETWEEN SEVEN (7) to NINE (9) of the above technologies, including 1), 2) and 4) to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. Routinely used FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above technologies, including 1), 2) and 4) to provide administrative support for an office. This included creating tables and spreadsheets to display information/data. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short-term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing tasks 1) through 6) listed above. Under general supervision, completed work assignments planned by supervisors, including performing tasks 1) through 4) listed above, met critical deadlines, and accomplished work. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Composed, edited and wrote clear, concise, and accurate work products using standard rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. These documents include: 1) memos and correspondence, 2) meeting minutes, 3) statistical and summary reports, 4) standard operating procedures, 5) human resources documentation, 6) e-mails to provide guidance and instructions, and 7) justifications for purchases and budget requests. Answer to this question is required Wrote and edited ALL of the above documents to support the work of an organization. Wrote and edited FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents to support the work of an organization. Wrote and edited FOUR (4) of the above documents to support the work of an organization. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide advice and guidance to managers about administrative functions within an organization, including Human Resources, Facility Services, Training, and Security. Provided advice and liaison support for managing an organization's administrative functions, including: 1) leave administration; 2) coordinating and procuring training; 3) serving as a liaison with Human Resources; 4) interpreting Library regulations, directives, and guidance about transit benefits or telework; 5) utilizes the Automated Abatement Program to enter information, track requests, follow-up on pending and completed items and close out cases; 6) coordinating the Length of Services Awards Program, 7) serving as liaison with facility services and maintaining tracking systems; 8) planning and coordinating office moves, meetings, and logistics; and 9) conducting periodic surveys of equipment and property use. Answer to this question is required Provided advice and guidance to management on a variety of administrative functions including human resources, facility services, training and security issues, and in doing so performed ALL of the above. Provided advice and guidance to management on a variety of administrative functions including human resources, facility services, training and security issues, and in doing so performed AT LEAST seven (7) or eight (8) of the above. Provided advice and guidance to management on a variety of administrative functions including human resources, facility services, training and security issues, and in doing so performed AT LEAST five (5) of the above. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others while exercising judgement and discretion in order to develop partnerships and provide consultation/liaison services. The ability to work well and cooperate with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units) using good judgement and discretion to provide positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipated existing and future needs and exchanged accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Played a key role in discussions concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the organization to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Participated in discussions concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).