Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to plan and review the work of team members.** Performed team leader duties such as: 1) Coordinated, and scheduled work assignments; 2) Determined and assessed manpower and equipment resources needed to ensure the continuity of workflow; 3) Monitored and reported status and progress of team&rsquo;s assigned work, 4) Led members in the receipt of inbound shipments and ensured appropriate materials are received; 5) Reviewed the work of team members; 6) Explained assignments to team members and provided oversight, 7) Reviewed blue prints and floor plans to determine product placement, and 8) Performed limited personnel related duties such as approving leave requests, etc. Answer to this question is required Independently performed ALL of the duties listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. Independently performed Six (6) or Seven (7) which includes (1) through (5) of the duties listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. Independently performed duties (1) through (5) listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures.** Applied knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures and in doing so, performed material handling work, that included: 1) Receiving, inspecting and distributing furniture, equipment and materials; 2) Conducting inventory of materials to verify quantity on hand and quantity issued and reported discrepancies; 3) Examining furniture and equipment for deterioration and damage and notifying supervisor accordingly; 4) Maintaining records for receipts of delivery of shipment through the daily use of automated programs; 5) Reviewing documentation for completeness and accuracy and taking appropriate steps to correct errors,; 6) Operating a variety of equipment (panel carts, drills, stevedores, dollies, etc.) to erect and/or dismantle partitions and/or repair and assemble furniture; and 7) Operating power jacks and transporters to move heavily loaded skids and other objects. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures and independently performed ALL of the duties listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. Applied thorough knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures and independently performed five (5) or six (6) of the duties listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. Applied working knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures and with minimal assistance, performed at least four (4) of the duties listed above for a warehouse or storage facility. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to interact and collaboratively work with others.** Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate activities of a warehouse or storage facility and to ensure deadlines and requirements were met. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, routinely served as the principal liaison for a warehouse or storage facility; collaborated with managers, staff, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure material handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Have experience occasionally serving as a liaison for a warehouse or storage facility; collaborated primarily with individuals internal to the organization (e.g., managers and staff) to ensure material handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Collaborated with colleagues and peers internal to the workgroup or division regarding material handling assignments. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to utilize computer technologies.** Performed materials handling work by utilizing a variety of computer technologies including: 1) Warehouse management systems, 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) Work order tracking system (e.g., remedy), 4) Peripheral equipment (optimal scanners and barcode readers), 5) electronic mail, 6) Database management (e.g., access), and 7) word-processing (e.g., Word, WordPerfect). Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL OF THE ABOVE computer technologies to perform work related to materials handling and warehouse management. Routinely used five (5) or six (6) of the above computer technologies including items 1) through 4) to perform work related to materials handling and warehouse management. Routinely used items 1) through 4) of the above computer technologies to perform work related to materials handling and warehouse management. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).