Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 Applicants must also possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States in order to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes how you meet the Licensure requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physical Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I do not meet the licensure requirement listed above. 2 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have graduated from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. In addition, I have successfully completed the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination. I have maintained my status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. I do not have the education as described in the above statements. 3 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet the qualification requirements, as described in the announcement, to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience as a certified physician assistant that is equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, as described in the Requirements section of the announcement and I have completed of an accredited physician assistant educational program. My experience does not match the choice above. 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.