Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in suggesting improvements to processes? Answer to this question is required I have never or rarely had to perform this task. I have identified and shared ways to improve processes and results. I have identified and shared ways to improve processes and results and incorporated those ideas into my own work. I have recommended appropriate ways to apply innovation to improve processes and results within my own team or department. I have recommended appropriate ways to apply innovation to improve processes and results across an entire organization. 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 6 With which of the following business and management functions do you have direct work experience? Answer to this question is required Administrative Budgeting / finance Communications Government Relations Information Services Inspection Legal Media Relations Purchasing Criminal Justice Administration E-Commerce Management Finance International Business Information Technology Management Public Management Human Resource Management General Management Conflict and Negotiation Management Fraud Management Emergency Planning and/or Management? Threat Assessment Logistics Management None of the Above 7 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency policy coordination. I have work experience representing my agency in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 8 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 9 Select the response that BEST describes your ability to develop outreach campaigns: Answer to this question is required I have never planned or participated in an outreach campaign. I helped produce an outreach campaign, but never designed one. I have developed and executed an outreach plan which evolved into an outreach campaign. I have developed and designed the framework for an outreach campaign. I have planned an outreach campaign, seeing it through from start to finish. 10 From the following list, indicate the tasks that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have drafted policies, guidance and/or operating procedures pertaining to records or information resource management issues. I have conducted studies and recommended internal controls or procedures to resolve issues with records management systems. I have coordinated and assembled records from both automated and non-automated records management systems for projects and/or to respond to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and other requests. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to staff on records management issues. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to management officials on records management issues. I research and analyze policy concepts and issues, best practices and recommend appropriate solutions to records or information resource management issues. As the office liaison, I consult with other organizations on records management issues and provide guidance. I conduct and/or assist with conducting quality reviews of data entered and retrieved from the system to ensure the adequacy and accuracy of the information and to identify potential problems. None of the above. 11 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system / program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system / program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system / program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs / methods. None of the above 12 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 13 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 14 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 15 Please identify the budget-related tasks you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the strategic or tactical planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units or organizations. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine the effect of strategic or tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets or forecasting. Performed local, state, and/or federal budgeting. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. Assisted others in drafting budgeting plans and justifications. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.