Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 2 Do you have experience lifting objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Have you cleaned tools or equipment under the direction of a senior employee or supervisor? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 What type of equipment do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Riding floor buffer Walk behind floor buffer Grinding machine Honing machine Power washer Ride-on sweeper Fork lift Pallet jacks Trash compactor None of the above 5 Which of the following types of floor surfaces do you have experience cleaning as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Marble Carpet Terrazzo Granite Tile Wood Concrete None of the above 6 Which tasks have you performed to ensure equipment is properly maintained? Answer to this question is required Cleaned and/or replaced buffing pads Cleaned and/or replaced brushes Checked battery fluid levels in portable machines Replenished battery fluid in portable machines None of the above 7 Do you know how to operate hand and power tools? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Which hand tools have you used? Answer to this question is required Screwdrivers Nut drivers Wrenches Sockets Mallet Chisel None of the above 9 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 10 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 11 Which of the following cleaning tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Buffed floors Shampooed carpet Moved furniture Set up tables and chairs for meetings Oiled floor cleaning equipment Changed attachments on floor cleaning equipment Swept and mopped floors Cleaned toilets Swept and mopped Dusted furniture, statues, or fixtures Emptied waste/recycling baskets and ashtrays Cleaned waste/recycling baskets None of the above 12 Which response best describes your highest level of experience operating, maintaining and repairing equipment? Answer to this question is required I have independently operated, maintained, or repaired equipment. I have operated, maintained, or repaired equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in operating, maintaining, or repairing equipment. I have completed training or education in operating, maintaining, or repairing equipment. I have not operated, maintained or repaired equipment. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.