Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-08 level in the Federal Service or comparable pay band system, providing veterinary technical support in the delivery of health care to a wide variety of mammalian, avian, and reptilian collection animals; completing veterinary tasks; and providing clinical laboratory support as a diagnostic tool for health care to insure the proper functioning of in place medical programs. I am a current SI employee who qualifies for this position as I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal Service or comparable pay band system, providing veterinary technical support in the delivery of health care to a wide variety of mammalian, avian, and reptilian collection animals; completing veterinary tasks; and providing clinical laboratory support as a diagnostic tool for health care to insure the proper functioning of in place medical programs. I have 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree related to the work of the position. I have a combination of education and experience that may be combined to meet the basic qualifications. If education is used to meet specialized experience requirements, then such education must include courses directly related to the work of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience on how you meet the Individual Occupational Requirements as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system, working one of the following as a laborer, manager, or owner of a livestock ranch or farm involving direct work with livestock; with livestock in a feed lot; as a Livestock Market Inspector; as an Animal Welfare Inspector; OR as an assistant to a veterinarian who works with livestock. I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have specialized experience (Federal or other) performing the following duties: providing veterinary technical support in the delivery of health care of non-domestic animals including areas of anesthesia, treatment, surgery, dentistry, radiology, and preventive medicine; using safe and humane animal husbandry procedures and practices; and completing other veterinary tasks to ensure proper functioning of veterinary hospital or medical programs. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience operating the following medical equipment on a regular basis: radiography machine, ultrasound, dental unit, and anesthetic machine? Answer to this question is required I have experience operating the following medical equipment on a regular basis: radiography machine, ultrasound, dental unit, and anesthetic machine. I have experience operating the following medical equipment on a regular basis: radiography machine, dental unit, and anesthetic machine. I have experience operating the following medical equipment on a regular basis: radiography machine and anesthetic machine. I have experience operating the following medical equipment on a regular basis: anesthetic machine. I do not have experience listed above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience filling prescriptions and maintaining pharmacy inventories? Answer to this question is required I have managed a pharmacy inventory and filled and dispensed prescriptions for a variety of exotic species. I have filled and dispensed prescriptions for a variety of exotic species. I have filled and dispensed prescriptions for domestic species. I have not filled prescriptions before. 6 Which of the following species do you have experience monitoring under anesthesia, for symptoms of illness, injuries, or other unusual conditions in an animal facility such as a zoological park (or similar setting)? Answer to this question is required I have experience and regular practice with Four of the following species: mammals, birds, herptiles, and fish. I have experience and regular practice with three of the following species: mammals, birds, herptiles, and fish I have experience and regular practice with two of the following species: mammals, birds, herptiles, and fish. I have experience and regular practice with one of the following species: mammals, birds, herptiles, and fish. I have do not have any experience listed above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining inventory and equipment and standard operations in a laboratory setting? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in an animal necropsy facility, necropsy service, zoological laboratory, or veterinary hospital. I have experience managing inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a non-zoological veterinary laboratory or hospital. I have experience managing inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a human hospital or laboratory setting. I have experience helping to coordinate inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a veterinary or human hospital or laboratory setting. I have no experience maintaining inventory, equipment, quality control, or service contracts in a hospital or laboratory setting. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with quarantine and isolation procedures in a zoological setting? Answer to this question is required Experience coordinating admission and discharge of quarantined animals, in addition to setting up, maintaining, and enforcing quarantine areas in a zoo or aquarium. Experience coordinating admission and discharge of quarantined animals, in addition to setting up, maintaining, and enforcing quarantine areas in a veterinary hospital. Experience setting up, maintaining, and enforcing quarantine areas in a veterinary hospital. No experience with quarantine. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with maintaining medical records and related animal health data? Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required I have experience working with ZIMS, MedARKS, or similar software for medical data entry of zoo/wildlife species, as well as experiencing working with Word, Excel, Outlook, and Powerpoint, or similar software programs. I have experience working with software for medical data entry of domestic species, as well as experiencing working with Word, Excel, Outlook, and Powerpoint, or similar software programs. I have experience with medical data entry only. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in maintaining animal records and performing animal observations needed for the health and well-being of captive live animals? Answer to this question is required I have experience maintaining animal care records electronically (and in paper form) and in making regular observations of animals in my care in a zoological facility. I have experience maintaining animal care records electronically (and in paper form) and in making regular observations of animals in my care in a laboratory, nature center, or rehab facility. I have experience maintaining animal care records and making animal observations in a zoological facility. I have experience using animal care records and making regular animal observations. I have experience using animal care records. None of the above. 11 Which of the following describe your level of experience maintaining inventory and equipment in a hospital setting? Answer to this question is required I have managed inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a zoological veterinary hospital. I have managed inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a veterinary hospital. I have managed inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a human hospital or laboratory setting. I have helped coordinate inventory, equipment, quality control, and service contracts in a veterinary or human hospital or laboratory setting. I have no experience maintaining inventory, equipment, quality control or service contracts in a hospital or laboratory setting. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.