Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience for this position include: (1) &nbsp;Experience in applying comprehensive technical knowledge of human resources related laws, regulations, policies, principles and practices to develop, administer and manage talent acquisition activities (i.e. sourcing, recruitment, selection and onboarding processes for Federal Wage Grade and General Schedule position vacancies, reviewing and approving HR-related actions and other talent acquisition activities). (2) Experience with developing talent acquisition policies and procedures, automated recruitment systems strategies, vacancy announcements, and certificates of candidates for referral. (3) Experience providing expert knowledge in talent acquisition human resource specialty areas (e.g., recruitment, candidate assessments, pay setting, special hiring/appointment authorities and/or use of incentives) in order to provide advice and guidance in the development of solutions to very complex problems and to advise on best course of action. (4) Experience in providing continuing advice and guidance in areas that include, but are not limited to, career staffing, processes and procedures, appointment authorities, and comprehensive talent acquisition activities. (5) Experience advising staff, managers, supervisors, program managers, and/or points&shy; of-contact involving recruitment, pay issues or other relevant concerns. &nbsp; No 2 Describe your level of experience with hard-to-fill positions, using methods to acquire talent with specific skill sets.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. &nbsp; My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 3 Describe your level of experience with creating partnerships and engagement with educational institutions such as high schools, universities, trade schools, or community colleges. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 4 Describe your level of experience in facilitating or participating in career fairs and how you have leveraged this experience to support your workforce or fill critical position vacancies. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 5 Describe your level of experience with using social media to strengthen your visibility and find a broader range of candidates.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 6 Describe your level of experience with using metrics to track your progress with filling vacancies, completing compensation actions, and reducing the length of time to fill position vacancies. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 7 Describe your experience in developing and implementing apprenticeship and internship programs for internal and external candidates. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 8 Describe your level of training experience as the subject matter expert trainer. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Please select the best answer that describes your experience level. My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 9 Please select the tasks you perform on a regular and recurring basis. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required &nbsp; Review employee’s HR work for quality and technical accuracy. Provide technical guidance to a team on staffing and/or classification matters. Represent the office or HR in meetings or briefings with high level officials or executives. Develop and/or recommend training for HR staff based on individual needs. None of the above. 10 Select the response(s) that describe your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required &nbsp; Developed comprehensive material for reports, training, briefings or meetings of senior management officials. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within the organization. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Interpreted and applied statutes and regulations. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Provided automated solutions to organizational problems. Provided input for HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements best represent your level of experience in the area of talent acquisition? Answer to this question is required I have acted as a lead (formally or informally), providing talent acquisition services to an organization while mentoring co-workers and junior staff members in these areas. I have a basic understanding of talent acquisition services, including posting vacancy announcements and processing certificates, having received limited training (formal or on-the-job). I have worked independently providing talent acquisition services to an organization. I have had no direct involvement in talent acquisition, but have considerable knowledge in other areas of human resources management. I have been a representative on task forces and/or committees responsible for the development of procedures and/or policies that integrate various hiring authorities and flexibilities into an organization's human resources management program. None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required. Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development program to facilitate change and communication. None of the above. 13 Please choose the statement that best describe your oral communication and presentation skills. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required. &nbsp; I regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives and priorities in oral presentations and provide training to various levels of personnel. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendation to managers, supervisors or employees. I represent my organization in meetings with third party individuals and/or organizations. I brief managers on organizational policy, goals and objectives. I foster cooperation and consensus among groups in achieving organizational goals. None of the above. 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.