Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Automotive Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs using shop floor control modules such as Systems Applications & Products (SAP); and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Automotive Worker Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e., safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.) None of the above. 4 Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of motorized vehicles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted other mechanics in repairing heavy duty differentials/transmissions or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have repaired heavy duty differential and transmissions; and/or I have replaced MHE clutch assemblies; and/or I have installed new crankshaft; and/or I have installed new timing chains; and/or I have installed piston rings; and/or I have repaired standard transmissions; and/or I have repaired differentials; and/or I have overhauled or rebuilt engines; and/or I have removed train assemblies and replaced seals, snaprings, bearings and gears. I have assisted other mechanics in replacing MHE clutch assemblies and/or installing new crankshaft or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have assisted other mechanics in installing new timing chains and/or piston rings, or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have replaced shift forks and rails, reassembling units; and/or I have rebuilt transmissions and transfer cases; and/or I have one year of experience in automotive repair at the commercial level; and/or I possess one Automotive Service Excellence (ASC) certification; and/or I have instructed or supervised other mechanics in performing automotive repairs. I have assisted other mechanics in repairing standard transmissions/differentials or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have assisted other mechanics in overhauling or rebuilding engines or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have diagnosed and overhauled automatic transmissions and drive systems (fluid couplings-automatic transmissions), bore cylinders to oversize; and/or I have successfully completed an automotive trade school; and/or I possess several types of Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) certifications; and/or I have utilized technical manuals to instruct other mechanics on the diagnosis and repair of automatic and manual transmissions as well as electrical pneumatic and air systems. I have assisted other mechanics in removing power train assemblies and replacing seals/snaprings/bearings/gears or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have assisted other mechanics in replacing shift forks and rails, reassembling units or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have assisted other mechanics in rebuilding transmissions and transfer cases or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. None of the above. 5 Automotive Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge of new and up-to-date practices in the automotive mechanic field, and the ability to use automotive trade theory in doing the more demanding or precise tasks, or in inventing new ways to do tasks that cannot be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recently demonstrated the ability to diagnose difficult repair problems; and/or I have performed diversified repair jobs associated with the automotive mechanic occupation; and/or I have completed an automotive apprenticeship or equivalent combination of experience and completion of more than one course in automotive trade theory and trade math. I have discovered alternate components to replace standard components and made modifications to equipment to accomplish an unusual repair demand; and/or I have independently figured out a proper degree of oversize drilling of oil passages when they were too small, causing valve failure; and/or I have interpreted the results of modern diagnostic tests; and/or I have monitored and complied with all environmental rules regarding storage and disposal of hazardous materials. I have ordered parts using catalogs and specifications; and/or I have used tools and testing equipment with assistance from supervisors, as needed; and/or I have performed standard automotive repair procedures. None of the above. 6 Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to use measuring instruments in identifying the need for repair and adjustment, or in determining that tolerances and fit specifications of repaired components and assemblies have been met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in using or teaching other mechanics how to use a full range of test and measuring instruments which includes engine and exhaust analyzers, chassis dynamometors, test stands, dial indicators, micrometers and inside and outside calipers; and/or I have used modern emissions analysis equipment. I have experience in using or teaching other mechanics how to do cyclic work which required the use of most of the following measuring instruments: micrometers, calipers, special feeler and dial gauges, generator, voltage, amp testers, gear thrust and surface gauges, test benches, and oscilloscopes. I have used the following measuring devices and instruments in a working support role to a journeyman: battery-starter tester, compression gauge, vacuum gauge, condenser, magneto tester, tachometer, volt-ohm meters, dwell meters, ignition timing light, fuel analyzers, fuel gauge tester and stroboscope. None of the above. 7 Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to read, understand, and apply the content and theory of instructions, manufacturers specifications, military specifications, technical manuals, trade journals, catalogs, handbooks, charts, tables, graphs, and monographs that are pertinent to vehicle and allied mechanical equipment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted instructions, specifications, catalogs, technical manuals, bulletins, trade journals, handbooks, and schematics (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, and generator alternator manuals) to locate answers for complex mechanical and electrical problems, recommending the need for replacement due to obsolescence or kinds of replacement most desirable. I have used mechanical and electrical reference manuals (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, and generator alternator manuals) to make repairs and adjustments with help from a supervisor on only some of the complex problems encountered. I have used mechanical and electrical references (engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential) with help in interpretation from my supervisor on some of the complex problems. None of the above. 8 Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to use hand and power tools as well as portable electric pneumatic tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the following tools under close supervision or in a classroom setting: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes. I have frequently used the following tools to repair and adjust automotive accessories: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes. I have used the following tools to perform diversified handwork in the overhaul of engines, transmissions and differentials: boring bars, crankshaft grinders, valve seat installer, valve seat grinder, valve refacer, and valve head seat grinders; and/or I have used and maintained exhaust analysis and fuel/air ratio analysis equipment. None of the above. 9 Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to ascertain the causes of malfunction in automotive vehicles and allied equipment, ability to determine extent of needed repairs or adjustments, and ability to test repaired equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified causes of automotive malfunction which other journeyman have not been able to locate (such as discovering the cause of an uneven ride or noise after competent journeymen have failed to discover uneven drive shaft or defective axle housing). I have diagnosed and performed tests requiring complete knowledge of relationships among all mechanical and electrical units and systems such as voltage regulators, light systems, generators, and transmissions, with little or no assistance. With occasional supervision, I have experience in troubleshooting a particular system when the source of trouble is obviously in that system (e.g. transmission, differential, crankshaft assembly, etc.) and/or I have tested equipment related to delicate adjustments such as stroboscope lights for testing timing. I have instructed other journeymen in troubleshooting problems with mechanical/electrical units and systems (such as voltage regulators, light systems, generators, transmissions, etc.). None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).