Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have any experience in supporting the operation of an astronomical observatory? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 If you responded yes to the previous questions, briefly describe your experience in supporting an astronomical observatory. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 3 If you answered YES to the preceding question, select the duties that you participated in while supporting the operation of an astronomical observatory (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have written observing plans for a large ground-based or orbiting astronomical observatory I have written code as part of the official calibration pipeline for an astronomical observatory I have installed or maintained hardware that is part of an astronomical observatory I have regularly used a telescope in a ground-based observatory as part of my job duties I have written code to help with archiving data from an astronomical observatory 4 Do you have experience writing and maintaining technical documents? Answer to this question is required I have never created or maintained a technical document I have mainated and edited technical(s) document(s) written by other I have experience with creating and maintaining technical documents 5 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Astronomy and Space Science positions. You must submit a transcript for proof of education. Answer to this question is required A. I have completed requirements for bachelor`s or higher degree from an accredited college/university in one or a combination of astronomy, physics, mathematics, space science, or electronics. The course work must have included differential and integral calculus and 12 semester hours in astronomy and/or physics. B. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education as described above, including at least 30 semester hours of courses equivalent to a major in any combination of astronomy, space science, physics, mathematics, and electronics, with required course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. C. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 6 Have you been involved in any research in physics and/or astronomy? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 If you answered yes to the preceding question, briefly describe your project and experience. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 8 which of the following best describes the amount of time you have spent operating a telescope in the role you described in the previous question? Answer to this question is required More than a year A few months A few weeks A few months I have not operated a telescope 9 Which of the following best describes your experience operating a telescope? Answer to this question is required I have routinely operated a telescope at a world class observatory, and have trained other people on its safe operation. I have routinely operated a telescopes at a University scale observatory and trained other people in its safe operation. I have routinely operated a telescope at a world class observatory for the purpose of obtaining scientific data for other people. I have routinely operated a telescope at a world class observatory for the purposes of obtaining my own scientific data. I am familiar with and have used telescopes at the amateur level. None of the Above 10 Do you have knowledge or experience with basic astronomical research techniques and have used astronomical image processing programs such as AIPS, IRAF or MIRIAD? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a Research Assistant in an Astronomy Department and have used astronomical image programs such as IDL, AIPS, MIRIAD or IRAF to capture and analyze data on an on-going basis. I have taken college level courses in IRAF, MIRIAD or AIPS, or have applied it in either assignments or special projects. I have experience as a Research Assistant which required the use of astronomical image processing programs or the creation of custom software. I have experience with other large data reduction software packages (e.g. AIPS) from other physical science assignments or projects. I have knowledge or experience with basic astronomical research techniques, but have not used astronomical image processing programs. I do not have knowledge or basic astronomical research techniques nor have I used astronomical image processing programs. 11 What is your experience conducting night observations? Answer to this question is required I have no hands-on experience doing night observations. I have limited experience conducting amateur observing at night. I have experience conducting night observations at a university or college. I have experience conducting night observations at a professional observatory. I have been conducting on-site or remote observing runs at an observatory to support my own research. 12 What data reduction software platforms or packages have you used? Answer to this question is required I have not used any data reduction software. IRAF DRAGONS ESO-MIDAS Other proprietary software 13 How would you characterize your experience in processing optical astronomical data, taking calibrations, and conducting preliminary data reduction? Answer to this question is required I have taken calibrations (e.g., bias, dark, flat field), assessed image quality, and conducted preliminary data reduction and analysis to determine data completeness, integrity, and scientific usability. I have taken calibrations (e.g., bias, dark, flat field), but with no image quality assessment. I have conducted only preliminary data reduction and analysis, not taken calibrations. I have not taken or evaluated optical astronomical data. 14 How would you characterize your experience working on-site operating an optical telescope and support facilities with an observing team? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted with instrument setup and the use of data acquisition and reduction software. I have supported visiting and staff astronomers in preparing for night observations, taking calibrations, and performing telescope checkouts. I have experience working on-site, operating a meter-class optical telescope, and supporting facilities as part of an observing team. I have experience training others to operate the telescope or instruments I have no experience operating an optical telescope on-site. I have experience remotely operating an optical telescope. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.