Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Support Coordinator handles verbal inquiries ranging from staff at the Staff Training Academy, to officials such as Central Office Administrators, Wardens, Regional Directors, other federal, state and local, officials/staff, and the public. He/she directs calls, provides assistance, answer questions, and will be courteous, professional and exhibit the highest standard of excellence in all interactions and communications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a division/unit/office retreat; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers. I have independently answered questions and completed business involving both established and unwritten policy on routine matters; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented working papers to the Section Chief; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of numerous computer programs, utilize databases, web-based programs and emails. He/she must be able to run reports from various computer systems to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs, analyze the data and, provide information for interpretations to be used within the National Recruitment Office (NRO). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed/assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters of Microsoft systems to enter data and run reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program. I have entered and retrieved data using various Microsoft systems; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have retrieved and researched information from the internet and intranet (e.g., Sallyport). None of the above. 4 The Administrative Support Coordinator will develop a knowledge of policies governing the federal purchase program. He/she will purchase supplies and equipment and will be responsible for all accountable property within the National Recruitment Office (NRO). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched supplies, composed order documents, recorded costs and quantity of supplies within an internal/external system appropriately; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed item codes to ensure proper categorization; and/or I have routed and received proper authorization in relation to ordering supplies; and/or I have confirmed and ensured the orders received are accurate against the original manifest; and/or I have maintained vendor communication to ensure items requested are not on backorder. I have ordered, received and stored supplies appropriately; and/or I have reviewed incoming order forms for proper coding, quantities requested and authorized approvals; and/or I have inspected and verified supplies received against invoice and packing slip; and/or I have initiated requests for vendor corrections; and/or I have maintained accountability and supporting documentation for reconciliation of expenditures as a credit card holder; and/or I have managed travel reconciliation expenses based on federal travel regulations and reimbursement; and/or I have applied policies and procedures related to federal spending to ensure proper coding and reimbursement of travel/general expenses in accordance to Department of Justice (DOJ) and Bureau of Prison (BOP) policy. I have provided daily mail/package pick-up and distribution; and/or I have ensured supplies are distributed to appropriate requestor or appropriately stored; and/or I have reported supply distribution discrepancy to appropriate supervisor. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Support Coordinator will compose non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. Additionally, he/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed sensitive correspondence for conformance with regulations, proofread documents for grammar and format and returned to the originator for corrections; and/or I have prepared a reference guide/handbook/instructional booklet to be used by staff; and/or I have compiled, designed and prepared all handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meetings. I have reviewed non-sensitive correspondence prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have, as instructed, prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Support Coordinator is responsible for planning and organizing work under general supervision. He/she must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and must efficiently use the time and resources available to them. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a new purge schedule for files and records; and/or I have maintained the identification card log; and/or I have updated checklists to ensure compliance after policy/procedural changes; and/or I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor’s use. I have enhanced or developed a method to organize data; and/or I have developed forms for completing work such as evaluation forms for conducting training; and/or I have developed a new tracking system for administrative responsibilities; and/or I have developed/designed several filing systems for a newly established office; and/or I have compiled and prepared budget justifications; and/or I have researched and summarized material on issues for supervisor or other interested parties. I have developed and implemented a reference file of duties to assist in training others; and/or I have developed a tracking system for performance appraisals or other suspense items; and/or I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence. None of the above. 7 The Administrative Support Coordinator will oversee daily administrative tasks as well as the business functions related to the planning and coordinating travel and recruitment events, disseminating information and resources to the field for a nationwide program. He/she must develop knowledge of 5 CFR, Department of Justice (DOJ), &amp; Bureau of Prison (BOP) policies to administer Time &amp; Attendance program for National Recruitment Office (NRO). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored, adjusted and distributed the workload for staff, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have ensured any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have, after classification/compensation and related documents are approved, provided final disposition and distribution; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants, coordinating training for participants and preparing conference material/information, etc.; and/or I have coordinated work with other divisions for special projects; and/or I have established a new filing systems or other data collection system. I have trained fellow employees on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work assignments; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have solicited agenda items for meetings and prepared agenda; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have facilitated work of the supervisors and specialists by performing initial review of classification and compensation documents submitted from agency/regional/field offices; and/or I have reviewed work of lower level clerical staff and provided instructions to improve their skill; and/or I have identified unusual requests, etc., and advised classifier or supervisor; and/or I have developed a database that tracked staff assignments to ensure all timelines and due dates were met. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).