Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing fire alarm equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of fire alarm equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of fire alarm equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. 2 Do you have experience servicing fire protection equipment and assisting in&nbsp; electrical work on fire protection systems. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which tasks have you performed as a routine part of your job? Answer to this question is required Performed fire protection and life safety system checks and inspections Witnessed and documented system testing and performance Verified installation in conformance with specifications and codes Conducted checks and inspections of fire extinguishers Conducted inspections of buildings Conducted inspections of fire protection systems and equipment None of the above 4 Which Fire Alarm System Devices have you installed? Answer to this question is required smoke detectors flow switches tamper switches manual pull stations None of the above 5 Which of the following fire related issues have you been responsible for identifying? Answer to this question is required Hazards Code deficiencies Unsafe actions None of the above 6 Have you been responsible for documenting fire hazards, code deficiencies or unsafe actions? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Have you run cable to connect fire alarm devices to a fire alarm system? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility testing fire alarm systems? Answer to this question is required I have not tested fire alarm systems. I have completed training or education related to testing fire alarm systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the testing of fire alarm systems. I have tested fire alarm systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently tested fire alarm systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 9 I am knowledgeable of the following workplace safety procedures. Answer to this question is required Confined Spaces Hot Work Permits Lock/Tag Out Practices Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) or Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Impairment Procedures Safe Evacuation of a Facility Safe Moving of Materials Use of Safety Equipment None of the above 10 Which hand tools have you used to assist with the installation, maintenance, or repair electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required Electric/power screwdrivers Hammers Nut drivers Crescent wrenches Channel locks Hack saws Electric/power drills Soldering irons None of the above 11 Which extinguisher inspection duties have you performed? Answer to this question is required Checking extinguishers for proper pressure Cocking tamper seals Checking horns and hoses for stoppage Inverting extinguishers to loosen powder Performing twelve (12) year hydro test verifications None of the above 12 Do you have experience testing and maintaining fire pumps? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Do you have experience interpreting and applying National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) codes to troubleshoot fire alarm equipment that is not in compliance? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility troubleshooting fire alarm equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. I have completed training or education related to the troubleshooting or repair of electronic equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the troubleshooting or repair of fire alarm equipment. I have troubleshot or repaired fire alarm equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently troubleshot or repaired fire alarm equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 15 For which components have you assisted senior staff with troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Fire alarm loops Smoke or duct detectors Sprinkler flow switches or dry sprinkler systems Disabling fire alarm zones or loops Fire pump controllers Power supplies Reading and interpreting drawings (floor plans or wiring drawings) None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.