Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Select the response that best describes your eligibility to be considered under the Recent Graduate program. Answer to this question is required I have graduated within the last two years with a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. I am a veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to a Recent Graduates Program during a portion of my 2 year eligibility period. My eligibility period is extended to receive the full 2 years of eligibility and therefore, I meet the requirement above. I understand that my eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date that all educational requirements were completed. I will graduate by June 30, 2026, with a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. None of the above. 7 Select the response that best describes your qualifications for this position. Answer to this question is required I have completed an undergraduate degree with a major in accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other related field with at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of course work as outlined in the “Qualifications Required” section of the vacancy announcement, WHICH INCLUDES 6 semester hours (or equivalent) course work in accounting from an accredited college or university. I have not completed my degree but will have completed an undergraduate or graduate degree by June 30, 2026 with a major in accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other related field with at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of undergraduate and/or graduate course work as outlined in the “Qualifications Required” section of the vacancy announcement, WHICH INCLUDES 6 semester hours (or equivalent) course work in accounting from an accredited college or university. I have completed at least one year of graduate school with a major in accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other related field with at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of undergraduate and/or graduate course work as outlined in the “Qualifications Required” section of the vacancy announcement, WHICH INCLUDES 6 semester hours (or equivalent) course work in accounting from an accredited college or university. I have one year of qualifying experience as referenced in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of education and experience as referenced in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. None of the above. 8 Select the response that best describes your qualifications for Superior Academic Achievement in completing your undergraduate degree. Answer to this question is required A class standing in the upper third of my graduating class or major university subdivision, such as the School of Business Administration. A GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on 4 years of education or computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. A GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. Membership in a national scholastic honor society. None of the above. 9 This job requires travel, up to 3 weeks/month, depending on duty location - Are you willing to travel 1 to 3 weeks per month? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I authorize the FDIC to contact the reference I have provided below. Reference #1 Name:&nbsp; Title: Organization: Current Telephone Number: In what capacity is your relationship to this individual? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Do not provide any additional information other than what is requested in response to the reference question. 11 I authorize the FDIC to contact the reference I have provided below. Reference #2 Name:&nbsp; Title: Organization: Current Telephone Number: In what capacity is your relationship to this individual? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Do not provide any additional information other than what is requested in response to the reference question. 12 I acknowledge that in order to be considered for this position, I must submit a copy of ALL transcripts as outlined in the Qualification section of this announcement. U nofficial copies are sufficient, but, if selected, official copy(ies) will be required prior to appointment . Failure to submit transcripts will be considered an incomplete application and I will not be referred for consideration.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).