Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Management Analyst must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including Microsoft Suites (i.e., Excel, Word, Access, and Outlook) to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data, and provide information for interpretations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used spreadsheets and databases in order to complete routine assignments; and/or I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have created time and attendance reports; and/or I have ensured specific accounting codes were entered correctly for overtime and special projects. I have analyzed and interpreted complex travel regulations for subordinate or other staff members; and/or I have distributed operating funds to cost center within the division; and/or I have analyzed financial data at year-end to ensure proper classification of accruals and reported to cost center Manager/Executive Assistant or other manager; and/or I have created computer spreadsheets using formulas and worksheets in Access, Excel, or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have reconciled fund control and reported discrepancies. I have analyzed travel costs, office supply charges, etc., to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs such as Financial Management Information System (FMIS), National Finance Center (NFC), Access, or Sallyport; and/or I have tracked and reported cost information within the division; and/or I have entered data in Access or Excel into already established formulas. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst in this position must be able to organize the workflow of the clerical and administrative support functions/personnel. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning and organizing workload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized compressed work schedule request for immediate department; and/or I have requested training for self and co-workers based upon identifying the training needs within the department. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system; and/or I have used judgement in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions. I have organized and maintained a logging system for all work categories in the office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have assisted/made suggestions in order to assist less experienced staff in meeting timelines and due dates. None of the above. 6 The Management Analysts must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used word processing and other standard office software to produce reports, training materials and other forms of communication; and/or I have maintained electronic files; and/or I have set-up new computer system password/conducted personal identification verification (PIV) issuance or update; and/or I have conducted regular and routine checks of urinalysis and background investigation results status. I have assisted with using a variety of software applications, development of detailed and technical presentations to be used by superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage routine large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports in order to follow up on routine projects/assignments. I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have prepared a professional presentation which included slides, graphs, charts, etc., using multiple presentations software packages such as Microsoft PowerPoint; and/or I have entered non-routine statistical data into an agency specific database; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments. None of the above. 7 The Management Analyst interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of conducting studies, fact finding, gathering data and exchanging information to resolve problems, clarifying issues and giving or receiving guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised/instructed secretaries (clerical and administrative staff) in subordinate branches regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff within the division. I have provided technical interpretation of policies/procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within a specific discipline/division; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prison (BOP) managers while involved in a project; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included levels from the institution, regional/Central Office. I have provided instructions regarding program requirements; and/or I have assisted in informal training for staff and contractors; and/or I have assisted with meetings by handling inquiries from internal staff. None of the above. 8 The Management Analyst communicates in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, charts, etc., to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents from sections/branches for signature of Assistant Director/Deputy Assistant Director/Executive Assistant; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements/technical guidelines for staff within the department for the supervisor. I have prepared slide presentations for training and briefings; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared a training agenda to relay course information to instructors and contractors; and/or I have written memorandum for informational purposes. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. None of the above. 9 The Management Analyst will have an understanding of critical projects and the order and due dates which these projects will require completion. He/she must understand the significance and scope and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completed prior to or before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code, or accounting code); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have completed travel authorizations within or before prescribed due dates; and/or I have multi-tasked between projects/tasks/responsibilities (i.e., used opportunity to analyze data while reports were printing, waiting on return calls, etc.); and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents for the entire division (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.); and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going division projects. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Management Analyst interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of conducting studies, fact finding, gathering data and exchanging information to resolve problems, clarifying issues and giving or receiving guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed management on issues within and outside of a discipline; and/or I have provided highly technical information during meetings, conferences and other forums to line staff, Executive level staff, community organizations, and other external entities, and public and private agencies, utilizing skills to influence/persuade others to use particular approaches to aid in meeting objectives; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations at national conferences and local venues. I have provided technical interpretation of policies/procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within a specific discipline/division; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prison (BOP) managers while involved in a project; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included levels from the institution, regional/Central Office. I have advised/instructed secretaries (clerical and administrative staff) in subordinate branches regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff within the division. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst communicates in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, charts, etc., to document findings of studies and analysis conducted.&nbsp; He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents from sections/branches for signature of Assistant Director/Deputy Assistant Director/Executive Assistant; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements/technical guidelines for staff within the department for the supervisor. I have composed memoranda to division staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries from external organizations; and/or I have compiled periodic and special reports requiring the interpretation of statutes, regulations and policy for Department of Justice (DOJ) and Bureau Executive Staff; and/or I have written technical status reports and issue papers; and/or I have prepared/written briefings concerning changes in Program Statements, institution supplements/technical guidelines for staff within the department; and/or I have prepared an after-action report based on program review or comparable audit findings; and/or I have prepared reports for managerial staff meetings. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst will have an understanding of critical projects and the order and due dates which these projects will require completion. He/she must understand the significance and scope and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completed prior to or before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code, or accounting code); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. I have developed electronic format for “due date reminder” and ensured projects were completed prior to “due dates,” allowing additional time for supervisory review; and/or I have balanced daily tasks with projects that required immediate attention; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on the management level for requests/needs, making daily adjustments as necessary. I have completed travel authorizations within or before prescribed due dates; and/or I have multi-tasked between projects/tasks/responsibilities (i.e., used opportunity to analyze data while reports were printing, waiting on return calls, etc.); and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents for the entire division (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.); and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going division projects. None of the above. 7 The Management Analyst must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including Microsoft Suites (i.e., Excel, Word, Access, and Outlook) to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data, and provide information for interpretations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed travel costs, office supply charges, etc., to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs such as Financial Management Information System (FMIS), National Finance Center (NFC), Access, or Sallyport; and/or I have tracked and reported cost information within the division; and/or I have entered data in Access or Excel into already established formulas. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future analysis; and/or I have identified sources of existing program outcomes in the human resources discipline and developed written materials explaining their utility to the Bureau; reviewed and analyzed Bureau’s existing data and administrative reporting systems and made recommendations to improve internal processes to support an outcome based policy system; and/or I have served as a team member in a project that was implemented Bureau wide; and/or I have co-authored procedures and policy to implement a new requirement; and/or I have facilitated the implementation of a new requirement by coordinating training. I have analyzed and interpreted complex travel regulations for subordinate or other staff members; and/or I have distributed operating funds to cost center within the division; and/or I have analyzed financial data at year-end to ensure proper classification of accruals and reported to cost center Manager/Executive Assistant or other manager; and/or I have created computer spreadsheets using formulas and worksheets in Access, Excel, or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have reconciled fund control and reported discrepancies. None of the above. 8 The Management Analyst in this position must be able to organize the workflow of the clerical and administrative support functions/personnel. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning and organizing workload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system; and/or I have used judgement in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions. I have organized and maintained a logging system for all work categories in the office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have assisted/made suggestions in order to assist less experienced staff in meeting timelines and due dates. I have assessed the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations; and/or I have determined workflow and assignments of other staff; and/or I have developed management policy and programs affecting clerical and administrative support functions. None of the above. 9 The Management Analysts must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed various automated methods to complete technical assignments; and/or I have used technical software programs to create and maintain organizational charts for office use; and/or I have created a position control database or other types of database to track information required by management; and/or I have developed and prepared highly technical and complex correspondence using Microsoft Word or other word processing software; and/or I have created spreadsheets using complex formulas and intra-dependent worksheets in Access, Excel or similar type of spreadsheet, which improved the accuracy and effectiveness of the operation; and/or I have provided instruction to staff on the use of various software applications. I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have prepared a professional presentation which included slides, graphs, charts, etc., using multiple presentations software packages such as Microsoft PowerPoint; and/or I have entered non-routine statistical data into an agency specific database; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments. I have assisted with using a variety of software applications, development of detailed and technical presentations to be used by superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage routine large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports in order to follow up on routine projects/assignments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).