Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicant must demonstrate at least five (5) years of executive-level experience in a Federal, state, or local agency leading and managing pretrial, probation or parole community supervision, or a paroling authority agency in the capacity or equivalent to Executive Director, Commissioner, Administrator, Chief, Assistant/Deputy Director, Assistant/Deputy Commissioner, Assistant/Deputy Administrator, Assistant/Deputy Chief or Regional Director; OR five (5) years of current, demonstrated experience providing expert technical assistance, guidance and training at the national level to local pretrial, probation or parole agencies related to operations, policy development and the implementation of a research based innovation aimed to improve pretrial, probation or parole agency operations and outcomes; AND Applicant must have at least four (4) years in a managerial or supervisory capacity with included responsibility for designing and implementing system-wide community supervision policy, procedure, and practice, effectively engaging criminal justice and community stakeholders, to reach desired outcome and the application of emerging research into innovative new community supervision practices; AND Applicant must demonstrate significant experience designing and implementing system-wide policy; AND In this capacity the applicant must have a minimum of five (5) years of experience training senior executive staff in a community supervision system. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. &nbsp; 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Programs Advisor is responsible for writing reports, assisting in policy development, developing, and facilitating training, briefings, and presentations to a variety of management level officials of the community supervision. He/she also performs a range of other duties with respect to specific National Institute of Corrections (NIC) programs and services. To effectively perform the duties associated with this position, he/she must possess strong verbal communication and facilitation skills, as he/she is responsible for coordinating, conducting, and facilitating a variety of meetings, panels, and discussions to achieve results desired by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated meetings and presented briefings/training/presentations for a specific community supervision issue, which were utilized at the national level of a community supervision agency/organization; and/or I have developed and facilitated a presentation addressing an issue impacting community supervision in the Federal, state and local spectrum, and provided recommendations for an improved method or procedure; and/or I have resolved an issue by negotiating with contractors or cooperative agreement employees which satisfied all parties involved. I have provided training to co-workers/peers; and/or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have provided updated information during departmental meetings. I have facilitated meetings with community supervision upper management officials to develop policy, training programs, or resolve a non-routine issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations to train or inform participants at a local level or specific organization; and/or I have presented/facilitated community supervision training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors, and upper-level managers. None of the above. 5 The National Programs Advisor will be responsible for writing reports, assisting in policy development, and other documents that are used to maintain and improve the programs and services offered by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written response/recommendations; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from elected state elected officials (Governor or the legislative body); and/or I have written final findings of an agency policy and procedure review; and/or I have responded to media and other community agency stakeholder groups. I have developed policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries originating from outside the agency; and/or I have prepared detailed work plans, policies/procedures regarding critical needs or concerns; and/or I have written an article which was published in a technical publication, journal, and newsletter; and/or I have prepared grants/cooperative agreements for submission to funding authorities. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have written the findings of an assessment; and/or I have written a memo for all department heads regarding a newly established procedure; and/or I have published an internal newsletter. None of the above. 6 The National Programs Advisor is responsible for analyzing information from a variety of sources (both correctional and non-correctional), determining appropriate intervention strategies, and making policy and program recommendations based on this analysis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched information and made recommendations to increase program effectiveness in a community supervision environment; and/or I have gathered data for evaluating community supervision agency practices and submitted proposal to improve or streamline current procedures; and/or I have participated on a community supervision or criminal justice coordinating council taskforce which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate procedures for further consideration. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have audited documentation during a program review/audit review. I have performed sentence computations; and/or I have determined workforce characteristics through an analysis of statistics; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations with similar community supervision agencies. None of the above. 7 The National Programs Advisor must possess a comprehensive knowledge of community supervision, criminal justice, and legal issues, along with community supervision theories, techniques, and practices in order to analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of current or emerging programs and practices and make recommendations regarding modifications or implementation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared documents that analyzed similar programs; and/or I have organized an Operational Review or comparable internal audit of programs; and/or I have analyzed new theories/practices and prepared formal review paper. I have provided recommendations for the interpretation and implementation of procedures on a local level as a result of new policy; and/or I have participated as a member of a local community supervision workgroup established to determine the impact of policy changes to current operations; and/or I have provided recommendations for program implementation based on evaluation of programs in similar setting. I have interacted with Federal, state/local community supervision departments in researching, implementing, or explaining the impact of and emerging issues community supervision operations; and/or I have facilitated a group which significantly contributed to the creation or implementation of policies or programs having nationwide impact; and/or I have provided a suggestion or plan in the form of an Information Paper which significantly improved the operations of an agency/organization. None of the above. 8 The National Programs Advisor must possess the ability to establish, foster and maintain working relationships with a variety of individuals/entities in order to promote the mission, products and services offered by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC). He/she must also possess the ability to effectively negotiate, coordinate, and manage actions with other agencies/organizations while providing the information, research, or technical assistance to the corrections community. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues. I have met with leaders to discuss impact of new legislation on current operations/build collaborations of provided suggestions, which resulted in mutual agreement/understanding of plan of action required by all parties involved; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote and advocate for agency/organization priorities; and/or I have resolved multi-departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a program or policy assessment review. I have briefed Executive Staff on community supervision programmatic information; and/or I have provided recommendations to upper management/Senior Manager; and/or I have served on a community supervision taskforce with Executive Staff to develop and modify programs; and/or I have made presentations at strategic planning retreat; and/or I have facilitated meetings with upper management community supervision officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue; and/or I have actively participated on a workforce utilization matters; and/or I have briefed other management staff on issues internal and external of discipline. None of the above. 9 The National Programs Advisor must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages contractors and subject matter experts to perform at the highest level possible while managing project work. He/she is charged with the responsibility of monitoring contractors and subject matter experts in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have led an agency/organization responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by internal community supervision divisions to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union resident/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have improved a process to effectively manage, coordinate, and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve agency objective. I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs in a community supervision agency; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate to enhance performance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).