Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. 2 Materials Handlers must have the ability to work independently, make decisions, plan operations, show job responsibility, and exercise initiative. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have prepared shipping and inventory documents with required data; and/or I have handled and stored hazardous materials as required by regulatory and safety requirements; and/or I have used pallet measuring gauges and automated devices to ensure proper height, weight, and storage requirements were met; and/or I have used unmanned electromechanical devices and systems such as multipack induction conveyors and robotic pallet manipulators. I have checked shipping documents to verify incoming and outgoing shipments; and/or I have completed appropriate forms relating to stock descriptions, quantity, and labeling; and/or I have identified obvious damage to equipment and materials through visual inspections; and/or I have unloaded, stacked, rotate, and marked stock in accordance with operating procedures. I have developed plans for storage and arrangement of stock in accordance with agency regulations; and/or I have coordinated incoming and outgoing shipments and placement of materials within the docking area; and/or I have thorough knowledge of the physical distribution functions of a warehouse such as receiving, storage, issuing, and preservation; and/or I have developed space utilization plans for a warehouse. None of the above. 3 Materials Handlers must have knowledge of trade practices, alternative methods, production, design and handling. They must have the ability to keep things neat, clear and in order. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked in leading co-workers on an occasional basis; and/or I have organized material/equipment to meet deadlines; and/or I have used automated material identification equipment such as bar code wands, computer terminals, or laser scanners. I have supervised workers in the line of work of warehousing; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments. I have estimated material and manpower needed; and/or I have explained work procedures; and/or I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have trained new workers in warehouse procedures. None of the above. 4 Materials Handlers must have the ability to interpret instructions and directives and to carry out oral and written orders. They must comply with rules, regulations, and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised, interpreted, and instructed subordinates in proper loading and unloading, packing, and storage; and/or I have determined configuration, set-up, movement, rearrangement, and traffic flow in accordance with agency regulations; and/or I have worked with high degree of independence in determining sequences of loading/unloading, implementing the movement of materials from dock to bin or from storage to shipping. I have followed general instructions in storing and moving materials on a day-to-day basis; and/or I have used automated equipment according to manufacturer's guidelines; and/or I have stored hazardous materials according to appropriate regulatory requirements. I have completed routine tasks following established procedures; and/or I have followed standardized operation procedures for storing material; and/or I have completed shipping documents in accordance with supervisor’s direction. None of the above. 5 Materials Handlers must have knowledge of all the materials used in the variety of trades included in this job. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. With supervisor's help, I have chosen proper material or made substitutions; and/or I have used manual dollies and hand tools to complete work assignments; and/or I have used computer equipment to determine stock locations. I have experienced working with knowledge of a wide range of materials and safely stored materials without wasted space; and/or I have operated warehouse tractors, forklifts, and other general-purpose vehicles; and/or I have ensured stock was adequate and fresh. I have worked as supervisor or leader over several subordinate staff verifying, sorting, and storing; and/or I have interpreted instructions for subordinates; and/or I have defined specific properties of materials. None of the above. 6 Materials Handlers must demonstrate a history of past work in light of safety record as well as appropriate speed and quality of work levels, safety training, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed duties without evidence of on-the-job injury; and/or I have performed tasks such as loading and storing equipment, supplies and boxes, without loss of quality. I have performed duties efficiently and without hazard to self or others; and/or I have operated equipment according to recognized safe practices; and/or I have performed work assignments with little or no danger to others; and/or I have performed basic warehouse tasks timely and efficiently with no safety violations; and/or I have attended safety training within the department. I have performed tasks that required speed, accuracy, coordination of hand, foot, and body movement; and/or I have taught safety procedures to staff from outside the department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).