Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have provided human resources advisory service in the following specialty areas. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resources Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Senior Executive Service Political Appointees Executive Development None of the Above 2 Select the areas of human capital management that you have experience in: Answer to this question is required Human Capital Strategy Human Capital Policy and Compliance (e.g., PMA, GPRA) Recruitment and Retention Employee Relations Staffing and Classification Compensation None of the Above 3 Select from the descriptions below the response that BEST describes your experience researching, analyzing and interpreting human resources management and federal personnel employment laws, rules and regulations: Answer to this question is required I have conducted research and analysis to provide recommendations and influence the formulation and development of human resources employment policy. I have utilized various sources such as the Title 5 USC, 5 CFR, Merit Systems Protection Board, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines to perform daily work. I have conducted research and provided analysis for managements use in identifying current skill sets, skill gap closure techniques and facilitated recruitment, training / development, performance management and retention strategies. I have conducted research and analysis of human resources laws, regulations and best practices in order to develop methods and procedures for implementation to improve and enhance human resource programs in relationship to an organizations mission and strategic goals and objectives. None of the above. 4 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 5 Select the personnel management related activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Establishes guidelines and performance expectations for subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Evaluates job performance of subordinate supervisors, team leaders, program managers or staff employees. Develops work improvement plans, recommending personnel actions as necessary. Provides advice and counsel to workers related to work and administrative matters. Provides informal feedback and periodically evaluates employee performance. Hears and/or resolves complaints and grievances from employees. Provides advice, counsel or instruction to individual employees. Plans work to be accomplished by subordinates, setting priorities, and scheduling completion. Counsels subordinates regarding career potential and opportunities. Identifies training needs for subordinate staff and schedules necessary training. None of the above. 6 Select the response that BEST describes your experience developing policies and procedures: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 7 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have researched human resources data to provide recommendations that affected human resources policy. I have researched Human Resources laws using the Code of Federal Regulations, United States Code (U.S.C.), and the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions to determine the appropriate hiring authorities, designations, status codes, appointment types, etc. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to colleagues. I have researched human resources laws and policies to provide detailed recommendations to management. I have researched human resources rules and regulations to persuade others to modify a decision that was previously determined. I have no experience in researching human resources issues. 8 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.