Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Assistant Administrator, Residential Reentry Management Branch, prepares a variety of reports and correspondence. &nbsp; He/she possesses comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include high-level agency officials, and staff of other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofread and edited routine correspondence prepared by subordinates; and/or I have reviewed memorandums for department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal, magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by the agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high-level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures. I have revised internal policy or institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers, peers, or subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of an internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report or document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal agency/organization requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. None of the above. 5 The Assistant Administrator, Residential Reentry Management Branch, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high- level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have communicated with union officials to resolve non-routine issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have briefed Executive Staff on institution policies, procedures, and/or programs; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates in completing tasks; and/or I have conducted prison tours for outside groups; and/or I have presented audit findings and recommendations for improvement during department head meetings; and/or I have informally resolved local grievances. I have participated on a work group which included members of upper management/Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency. I have given formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with the labor union; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. None of the above. 6 The Assistant Administrator, Residential Reentry Management Branch, is responsible for reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs for the reentry services area.&nbsp; The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top-level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used automated systems to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research. I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency/organization practices that impacted significant programs on a national level; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate programming procedures. None of the above. 7 The Assistant Administrator, Residential Reentry Management Branch, must be able to evaluate, develop and implement policies that ensure efficient management of institution operations and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; requirements, objectives and goals.&nbsp; &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted a statement of work for the delivery of specific community-based services; and/or I have established positive working relationships to further agency objectives with the United States Marshals Service, Court personnel and/or United States Probation staff; and/or I have acted as Reviewer-In-Charge during audits conducted of residential reentry programs. I have identified the need for community-based services; and/or I have initiated contract action, and administered multiple contracts in a local community; and/or I have requested and administered funding (i.e., budget and community-based programs for Residential Reentry Centers (RRCs)) I have ensured the lawful commitment and release of inmates from contract facilities; and/or I have completed or audited sentence computations and tracked daily admissions and releases at contract locations; and/or I have referred inmates for placement in community-based programs by identifying pre-release needs and identified appropriate programs in the local community to address the needs; and/or I have participated in a training conference for contract providers. I have participated in the oversight of a contract facility; and/or I have initiated reports and/or adverse action to direct contractors to correct deficient operations; and/or I have provided technical assistance in the interpretation and coordination of community-based correctional activities. None of the above. 8 The Assistant Administrator, Residential Reentry Management Branch, must be able to develop, evaluate, and implement policies that ensure efficient management of contract facility operations and programs, and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; requirements, objectives and goals.&nbsp; He/she must be able to make numerous independent decisions regarding determining type of contract, contract award, and resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contracts, contract awards, and termination.&nbsp; At this level, he/she must have the ability to make decisions affecting more than one field location or division within Central Office. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired an evaluation panel; and/or I have managed a procurement action; and/or I have developed and implemented independent contracting decisions that affected agency policy or regulations or has had an impact on one institution or the agency as a whole; and/or I have evaluated the contractor’s performance in existing contracts and recommended solutions. I have participated in an evaluation panel; and/or I have developed or assisted in developing a Statement of Work (SOW); and/or I have researched, evaluated, and made independent decisions that affected agency policy, regulations, and contracts that may impact one institution or the agency as a whole; and/or I have determined corrective action on breached contracts. I have provided oversight for small purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions; and/or I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines. I have provided oversight and guidance to subordinate staff concerning investigating labor violations of contractors and determined appropriate actions; and/or I have audited or reviewed contracts to determine if they were in compliance with federal regulations; and/or I have played a lead role as decision maker in settling disputes with contractors. I have evaluated and advised management in correcting deficiencies in agency contracting procedures; and/or I have investigated labor violations of contractors; and/or I have determined the continuing need for or cancellation of services; and/or I have evaluated modification proposals from contractors. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).