Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience directing the work of employees performing masonry work? Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform masonry tasks. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I provided instruction or assistance to employees about the proper way to complete masonry tasks. I assigned work to employees and provided instruction about the proper way to perform masonry tasks. I assigned work to employees, provided instruction about the proper way to complete masonry tasks, and monitored completed work for quality. 3 Have you independently planned the installation or repair of masonry work? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have experience supervising and evaluating the work of employees performing masonry tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 6 Choose the following tasks that you have performed when leading other masonry workers. Answer to this question is required Passed on instructions received from supervisors. Assigned immediate tasks to be performed. Ensured that needed plans, blueprints, materials, and tools were available. Answered questions for other workers on work procedures, policies, written instructions, and directives. Checked work while in progress and when finished to insure that the work was completed in accordance with instructions given. Ensured that work deadlines were met. Ensured that safety rules and guidelines were observed. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience leading and overseeing other workers to accomplish masonry tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Do&nbsp;you have experience formulating and executing budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Have you matched and repaired decorative marble and stone in historic buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which of the following techniques and procedures have you applied when performing brick, block, marble and stonework? Answer to this question is required Performed decorative brickwork to create various patterns and designs. Cut and shaped brick to complete corners. Constructed window sills and arches capable of supporting walls above the openings. Cut, shaped and finished stone. Laid stone to repair or construct walls, patios and walkways. None of the above. 11 I have used the following work methods and sequences when I finish cement. Answer to this question is required Lay out work to be done. Determine materials to be used. Select proper tools and equipment, including measuring and squaring devices. Construct forms of various rectangular sizes and shapes. Determine proper cement mixtures and setting time. Compress the concrete. Remove excess concrete and level the concrete. Smooth the surface, edges and corners. Cut grooves in the concrete. Trowel and broom the drying concrete. Cure and seal the concrete. I am not knowledgeable of cement finishing work methods and sequences. 12 Select the tools you have used in performing masonry tasks: Answer to this question is required Brick trowel Gauge trowel Plumb bob Air hammers Hand hammers Chisels Crowbars Plaster Spoons Levels None of the above 13 Which tiles have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required Ceramic tiles Porcelain tiles Glazed tiles Marble tiles Granite tiles Vinyl tiles Quarry tiles None of the above 14 Have you determined the need to use flagging equipment and spotters to maintain the safety of a worksite? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Which safety equipment have you worn while performing masonry or construction work? Answer to this question is required Respirators Knee pads Safety glasses/googles Safety harness/lanyard Protective suits/safety vests Dust masks Ear protection None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.