Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise, develop and lead a workforce.** Supervised and led a workforce that includes: 1) establishing realistic goals and standards; 2) supplying regular, constructive feedback and mentoring staff; 3) seeking participation of staff in planning, decision making and team building; 4) identifying skills and ability of staff and any skill gaps for current and future needs; 5) providing opportunities for career development/advancement; 6) hiring staff; 7) addressing performance and disciplinary matters; 8) communicating performance expectations; 9) conducting timely and periodic performance evaluations; 10) planning and assigning work; 11) ensuring tasks are appropriately delegated and satisfactorily completed; and 12) fostering an environment valuing integrity and honesty focused on ongoing improvement to self, others and customer service. Answer to this question is required In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 20 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised final authority for the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including ALL of the above. Established and implemented annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules for the work of an organization. This includes managing changes throughout the organization. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 10 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including NINE (9) of the above. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of at least 5 staff (including both direct reports and staff managed through subordinate supervisors) and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to analyze, plan, develop and execute library projects.** Analyzed, planned, developed and executed library projects. This also included analyzing operational problems and developing solutions. Answer to this question is required Managed one or more multi-faceted programs that crossed organizational or functional lines. Served as a supervisory project leader, team leader, or chairperson for working groups, task forces, and/or committees which have been assigned responsibility for projects related to public service and collection management. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. Managed one or more multi-faceted programs involving several functional areas. Served as a project leader, team leader, or chairperson for one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees which have been assigned responsibility for projects related to public service and collection management. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. Managed all or part of a program involving several functional areas. Served as a project leader, team leader, or chairperson for one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees which have been assigned responsibility for projects related to public service and collection management. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of principles, concepts, and techniques as applied to leading a Collections Management Program.** Applied professional knowledge of principles, concepts, and techniques to manage complex programs and achieve cost-effective results as they relate to the physical control, preservation, and accessibility of library materials. Experience with the following: 1) directing high-volume circulation and fulfillment operations; 2) optimizing stack management and collections space utilization; 3) developing and executing efficient material retrieval workflows; 4) implementing comprehensive inventory control and tracking systems; and 5) managing the logistics of high-density offsite storage facilities and material transfers. Answer to this question is required As a manager responsible for collections management activities in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, initiated, planned and executed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager responsible for collections management activities in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, participated in the implementation of AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. As a manager responsible for collections management activities in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, participated in the implementation of AT LEAST TWO (2) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of principles, concepts, and techniques as applied to leading a complex organizational unit. Applied professional knowledge of principles, concepts and techniques to manage complex programs and achieve cost-effective solutions. Experience with the following: 1) preparing and executing budgets; 2) initiating and executing contracts; 3) developing new policies and procedures; 4) evaluating current and proposed operations and services; 5) allocating human, technical, and financial resources; and 6) planning and implementing programs and projects for library operations, specifically those involving collections inventory, access, security and collections space management. Answer to this question is required As a manager in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, initiated, planned and executed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, participated in the implementation of AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the tasks listed above. As a manager in a large government agency, archival institution, corporation, or professional association, participated in the implementation of AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services. Worked well and cooperated with others as a leader, team member, or liaison, including decision-makers and their staffs, other specialists, and experts in the same and other disciplines inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, coordinated and integrated AGENCY/ORGANIZATION-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. As a primary job responsibility, coordinated and integrated DIVISION OR UNIT-WIDE efforts, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. Coordinated and integrated a significant effort requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant/major issues. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).