Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Applicants who possess the following are preferred: Experience gained as a Contracting Officer performing market research, negotiation, administration, termination and closeout of health services contracts, and purchase of major medical equipment and medical supplies; OR Masters or doctoral degree from an accredited college/university in one of the following program areas: Health Economics, Public Health, or Business/Public Administration with a health finance specialty as evidenced by transcripts; OR Experience in variations of healthcare services catchment areas, Health care labor markets, and advancements in healthcare business practices (e.g., outcomes-based payment and fixed payment models). Applicants MUST clearly address these factors in their resume. Note: Applicants who possess a quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no one can be rated ineligible for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Do you meet one of the Quality Ranking Factors? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet one of the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet any of the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Management Analyst is familiar with the contract process and assists in analysis, audits, and evaluations of various contracting issues as they relate to Health Services Division contracts.&nbsp;He/she will assist in the development of medical contracting policies and procedures.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed an annual procurement plan; and/or I have evaluated contractor’s proposals and prepared a pre-negotiation position; and/or I have applied the regulations and techniques of source selection sufficient to conduct a selection. I have initiated contracts; and/or I have evaluated contractor proposals; and/or I have conducted multiple source research to verify best value to the government. I have developed and implemented a plan to procure a multi-year program or system involving successive program stages; and/or I have utilized multiple contract types and methods (i.e., cost and incentive contracting, award fee, cost sharing arrangements, processing of unsolicited proposals, multiple awards); and/or I have applied negotiation techniques to conduct contract negotiations. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst conducts management surveys and projects and provides advisory services to management officials.&nbsp;He/she will assist in the development of division and Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; policies based on the analysis of pertinent operational data.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared management summaries and formulated strategies to improve on the efficiency and effectiveness of programs; and/or I have facilitated or led management workgroups, surveys, or projects, and provided advisory services to management; and/or I have identified, interpreted, and utilized information from multiple sources to formulate plans, policies, and/or procedures. I have organized a task force or workgroup charged with gathering, evaluating, and reporting on an issue; and/or I have analyzed, summarized, and identified significant trends and issues; and/or I have forecasted and estimated program requirements, prepared reports, and made recommendations. I have determined trends based on program data; and/or I have prepared management surveys and program assessments; and/or I have compiled and compared data for a program. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst consults on the management and development of policies and procedures for work involving the evaluation of medical contract price proposals, advertising, negotiating, administering and/or terminating contracts for procurement of medical supplies and medical services for the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed continual planning to integrate actions involving obligations and responsibilities of both the government and the provider; and/or I have performed price analysis of all elements of cost in provider proposals and made competitive range determinations; and/or I have issued necessary modifications to policies to help clarify questions concerning such topics as specification changes, language ambiguities, or clarification of clauses. I have prepared modifications to add/delete items and/or adjust quantities; and/or I have advised program officials in procurement planning; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of statements of work. I have conducted internal procurement planning meetings; and/or I have prepared determinations and findings and solicitation documents; and/or I have developed memoranda of understanding and interagency agreements. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst works on several unrelated projects simultaneously which are at different stages of development.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with conducting program functions for audit analysis; and/or I have assisted with planning a special purpose workgroup/meeting to address specific issues or program concerns; and/or I have conducted a policy audit/review; and/or I have independently completed a segment of a project. I have planned, scheduled, organized, and/or coordinated national conferences and workgroups; and/or I have managed and/or coordinated division functions for audit analysis; and/or I have developed operational policies, manuals, and programs statements. I have planned and organized regional and/or local conferences and workgroups; and/or I have coordinated program functions for audit analysis; and/or I have developed local institution supplements. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).