Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience developing outreach programs that include off-site programming, school based programming, and digital and electronic-based programming? Answer to this question is required In a museum setting I have developed outreach programs that included off-site, school-based programming, and digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. In an educational non-profit setting I have developed outreach programs that included school-based programming and digital and electronic-based educational programs and activities that served a variety of ages and constituencies. I have assisted in the development of outreach programs to reach diverse audiences and digital and electronic-based education program and activities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following kinds of learning organizations do you have the most experience with regarding the implementation and coordination of field trip experiences? Answer to this question is required Natural history museum, science center, zoo, or aquarium that serves more than 150,000 K-12 students each year. Non-science-related museum (e.g., history, art) that serves more than 150,000 K-12 students each year. Natural history museum, science center, zoo, or aquarium that serves less than 150,000 K-12 students each year. Non-science-related museum (e.g., history, art) that serves less than 150,000 K-12 students each year. A K-12 or other school. I have no experience implementing field trip experiences with K-12 students. 5 For which of the following audiences have you developed and implemented education programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required K-12 Pre-school College level Families Teacher workshops Docent tours None of the above 6 Which of the following have you done? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created and implemented digital educational resources for K-12 teachers based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have created and implemented digital educational resources for K-12 students based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have created at least one digital educational resource for K-12 teachers and/or students based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have written content for at least one digital educational resource for K-12 teachers and/or students based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have created at least one digital educational resource for visitors based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have written content for at least one digital educational resource for visitors based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition. I have developed content based on an art museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition for videoconference program, podcast, webcast, or web video (i.e. YouTube) for K-12 teachers. I have developed content based on an art museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition for videoconference program, podcast, webcast, or web video (i.e. YouTube) for K-12 students I have developed content based on a museum’s permanent collection and/or special exhibition for videoconference program, podcast, webcast, or web video (i.e. YouTube) for visitors None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience organizing professional development and training programs that support museum or cultural institution&rsquo;s -based education and assist classroom educators in achieving academic goals? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have planned and implemented professional development for educators of various grade levels and subject areas. I have planned and implemented online professional development for educators. I have conducted professional development for educators that models ways to use museum or cultural institution’ s resources to enhance instruction. I have recruited educators to serve as advisors and presenters. I have made professional and conference presentations. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience or training designing original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation, or best practices that incorporate a museum&rsquo;s collection? Answer to this question is required I have not had course work, internships, training, or work experience designing original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation, or best practices that incorporate a museum’s collection. I have completed course work, internships, or other training in designing original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation, or best practices that incorporate a museum’s collection but have not performed this task on the job. I have designed original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation, or best practices that incorporate a museum’s collection as part of my job, usually with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation, or best practices that incorporate a museum’s collection as a central part of my work, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed original educational hands-on activities based upon research, evaluation or best practices that incorporate a museum’s collection as a central part of my work, trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience or training designing comprehensive lesson plans, learning activities, or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards? Answer to this question is required I have not had course work, internships, training or work experience designing comprehensive lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards. I have completed course work, internships or other training designing lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as part of my job, usually with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert. 10 Which of the following represents your experience in management and supervision? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have hired contract staff. I have recruited and hired full and/or part-time staff I have supervised full and/or part-time staff to include providing direction, guidance, and performance evaluation on work assignments. I have supervised contract staff assessing and provide feedback performance. I have evaluated and made recommendations on staff training and development needs. I have recommended and implemented performance improvement measures and disciplinary actions for conduct related infractions. None of the above. 11 Which of the describe your supervisoryexperience? &nbsp;(Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Directing staff in a results-oriented, customer-focused, and efficient manner to accomplish numerous concurrent requirements. Evaluating work performance of subordinate staff to identify training needs. Supervising, motivating, and leading employees to meet demanding performance expectations. Providing technical direction to team members to ensure consistent application of policies and procedures. Organizing work, set priorities, and determine resource requirements, short- and long-term goals, and strategies to achieve them Leading staff or team efforts to accomplish organizational goals and initiatives while maintaining a positive and productive atmosphere. I do not have experience listed above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.