Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 GS-07: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have completed 1 full year of graduate level education at an accredited college or university which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilitities necessary to do the work of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B" (3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B+" (3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in my major field of study, or those courses in my major completed in the last two years of my undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I ranked in the upper one-third of my class in the college, university, or major subdivision. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I am a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the list below, identify all of the options that describe your experience in analyzing data / information of complex financial issues. Answer to this question is required Disclosure forms Financial investments Conflicts analysis Waiver requests Divestitures requirement None of the above 2 Select the analysis or problem solving tasks you have performed as a regular part of the job in previous positions you held: Answer to this question is required Analyzed a large amount of inter-related and unrelated facts and opinions to obtain relevant information. Analyzed case files, documentation, reports and official orders. Collected, reviewed and/or analyzed unclassified and classified intelligence data. Made recommendations to improve or ensure conformance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, standards or guidelines. Monitored the status of cases, programs, or other official matters and reviewed, audited or evaluated in order to ensure requirements or recommendations were implemented. None of the above. 3 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 4 Please select the tasks you have performed in preparing information for reports. Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Extracted data from various sources for inclusion in reports Organized / consolidated data for inclusion in reports Review / proofread data contained in reports to ensure accuracy Verified data in reports Prepared a variety of reports of a routine / general nature None of the above. 5 From the following list of customer service skills, please identify those that you have routinely used: Answer to this question is required I listen to and question customers to obtain their requirements. I maintain regular contact with customers. I resolve customer complaints and concerns for the best possible outcome. I use creative thinking to suggest effective resolutions to customer's problems. I bring customers together with appropriate resources people to move their project ahead. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.