Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The National Occupational Safety Specialist contacts include; Executive Staff (Central Office, Regional, and Institution), Federal Safety and Health officials, labor representatives, attorneys, consultants, vendors, and others on a national, state, municipal and county level.&nbsp; Contacts are necessary for policy development, daily operation of the occupational safety compliance program, training, or settling disputed occupational safety issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral briefing on occupational safety issues to institution and regional staff; and/or I have persuaded Warden and other institution staff to implement required changes in the local occupational safety program; and/or I have assisted in negotiations with union officials; and/or I have participated in workgroups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency occupational safety programs; and/or I have presented information on policy changes to institution and regional staff. I have participated on a work group which includes staff from other agencies; and/or I have conducted training for Bureau audience at MSTC or for professional organizations; and/or I have given informal presentations to the institution staff; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to staff regarding occupational safety issues. I have represented the BOP on a local work group; and/or I have represented the BOP at community meetings; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served on a community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote the BOP; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to institution staff, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. None of the above. 3 The National Occupational Safety Specialist prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for internal distribution, briefing papers for use by the Chief of Occupational Safety and for local and regional personnel, etc.&nbsp; The incumbent must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include Department of Justice officials, other federal agencies, and members of professional organizations, BOP staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of a technical report/document pertaining to Occupational Safety; and/or I have prepared a Safety Compliance status briefing for institution staff; and/or I have revised institution supplements, revise operational safety procedures on specific job tasks. I have prepared articles for local newsletters; and/or I have prepared policy drafts based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency; and/or I have prepared written briefings for presentation to institution and regional staff. I have prepared budget proposals; and/or I have written strategic plan status reports; and/or I have written emergency plans; and/or I have prepared program review/external audit responses; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures; and/or I have prepared safety guidelines explaining laws, regulations, etc., in basic terms. None of the above. 4 The National Occupational Safety Specialist is responsible for assisting in the establishment, formulation, execution, and enforcement of national policy and programs relating to occupational safety compliance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected information/data and made recommendations to improve occupational safety initiatives; and/or I have gather data and proposed changes in evaluating BOP practices that impacted occupational safety programs; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzes problems within a specific occupational safety related field and recommends appropriate policy changes or revisions; and/or I have developed strategic plans; and/or I have served as a troubleshooter in dealing with institutional occupational safety issues; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and make appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations are maintained. I have analyzed and evaluated current operating procedures and recommended methods to improve the safety of staff and inmates; and/or I have updated policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed program review/operational reviews and ensured corrective actions have been initiated. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with reviewing work procedures; and/or I have reviewed current policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of funding requests; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes. None of the above. 5 The National Occupational Safety Specialist must have a thorough knowledge of all occupational safety issues.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided risk assessment evaluations on occupational safety; and/or I have received outside certification in the field of occupational safety; and/or I have researched specific safety material and provided an analysis of policy revisions recommended. I have identified occupational safety issues through the review and analysis of audit data; and/or I have developed and implemented system-wide training programs to address specific deficiencies in the occupational safety program to be used by the BOP; and/or I have authored an article that was published in an occupational safety trade journal to help industry members keep abreast of new developments. I have conducted training classes to a local audience on specific occupational safety issues; and/or I have conducted occupational safety inspections at a local level to identify specific deficiencies and recommended corrective actions to improve working conditions; and/or I have provide advice on occupational safety related issues to local management officials; and/or I have worked closely with local management officials on improving workplace occupational safety through constant communications with department head employees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).