Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 5 Choose the statements that describes your experience operating forklifts. Answer to this question is required Maneuvered forklifts in small areas such as in warehouses and between outside buildings. Transported vehicles, lifting, lowering and tilting forks in an appropriate safe manner Applied leverage when moving and handling heavy equipment and furnishings. Loaded and unloaded, stacked and unstacked warehouses Moved crates, boxes, packages, pallets, or loose items. None of the above 6 Do you have experience operating a forklift without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience moving items using a forklift. Answer to this question is required I have independently moved items using a forklift in tight spaces. I have independently moved items using a forklift. I have assisted others in moving things using a forklift (e.g., stacking the load, securing the load). None of the above. 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience reading work orders or requests for the movement of materials. Answer to this question is required I have independently read and interpreted work orders to move items. I have verified tasks required by a work order with a supervisor after reading a work order. I have received assistance from a senior employee to read and interpret work orders. None of the above. 9 Which tasks have you performed to compress waste materials? Answer to this question is required Sorted materials by recyclable grades Loaded materials into a baling machine Loaded banding wires into a baling machine Activated baling/compactor None of the above 10 Do you have experience adjusting your work schedule/workload to accommodate last-minute priority requests for service? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 12 Which tools or equipment have you used to move large or heavy items? Answer to this question is required Sliders Electrical fork lift Industrial fork lift (load capacity over 10,000 pounds) Pallet jack Hand jack Manual dollies None of the above 13 Which tasks have you performed to clean or tidy building areas? Answer to this question is required Vacuumed / Mopped floors Picked up pieces of trash or waste Emptying trash cans / recycling bins Delivered trash cans Moved furniture / supplies Delivered office supplies Hauled debris to a dumpster None of the above 14 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Which tasks have you performed to move items safely with a forklift? Answer to this question is required Balanced the load for even weight distribution Placed heavy items on the bottom of the stack Shrink wrapped the load Ensuring that forks are securely placed into the pallets None of the above 16 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.