Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to perform office coordination activities.** Performed office coordination activities to ensure efficency by performing the following: 1) provided office reception tasks for in person customers; 2) answered routine inquiries or refered customer to appropriate staff member; 3) scheduled appointments/meetings, reserved conference rooms, assembled meeting materials and reports; 4) maintained and ordered office supplies; 5) made travel arrangements for key personnel, prepared appropiate documentation; 6) served as time and attendance timekeeper; and 7) utilized office automation applications to perform the work of the position (i.e., word processing, spreadsheets, email, electronic calendar, internet software, relational databases (Access, GovTA) to provide general clerical support. Answer to this question is required In an administrative capacity, performed activities related to AT LEAST SIX (6) of the office coordinating activities listed above. In an administrative capacity, performed activities related to FOUR (4) of the office coordinating activities listed above. In an administrative capacity, performed activities related to THREE (3) of the office coordinating activities listed above including activities 1, 2 and 7 None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of mail, correspondence, and report processing.** Applied knowledge of mail, correspondence, and records processing support within an organization. In doing so: 1) routed and distributed physical&nbsp; and electronic mail to appropiate individuals. 2) established and maintained office records of suspense files to ensure actions are up to date; 3) prepared a variety of correspondences, reports and other documents; 4) created, retrieved, and maintained information in office databases; 5) retrieved information from various systems to produce reports in response to information and tracked performance. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above activities to provide support to an office or agency. Performed THREE (3) of the above activities to provide support to an office or agency Performed TWO (2) of the above activities to provide support to the office or agency, including activities 1 and 4 None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide customer service and support.** Fostered an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation was evident to internal and external customers by recognizing their needs, putting those needs first and maintaining a professional image. This included handling requests and complaints effectively and anticipating customer needs. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility in an office setting, served multiple internal customers (e.g., managers and staff) and external customers. Provided timely response to requests of a sensitive or complex nature; provided reports on status of requests; independently resolved requests or complaints; and recommended and implemented improvements to existing practices and procedures based on feedback. As a primary job responsibility in an office setting, served multiple internal customers (e.g., managers and staff), and external customers. Responded quickly and efficiently to requests. Independently or with minimal supervision, ensured timely follow up and resolution to customer requests and complaints. As a primary job responsibility in an office setting served primarily internal customers (e.g., managers and staff) and assisted with receptionist duties. Responded quickly and efficiently to requests. With minimum supervision, ensured timely follow up and resolution to customer requests and complaints. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short-term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing tasks 1) through 6) listed above. Under general supervision, completed work assignments planned by supervisors, including performing tasks 1) through 4) listed above, met critical deadlines, and accomplished work. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).