Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described&nbsp;in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Legal Assistants coordinate the workflow of a legal office, which has constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in coordinating a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference material information; and/or I have made travel and lodging arrangements for conference participants; and/or I have assisted in planning and coordinating work with other Division/office for special projects. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers to maintain orderly workflow; and/or I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection as assigned by the team leader/supervisor. I have trained co-workers and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made adjustments to accomplish day-to-day work; and/or I have identified beneficial software-hardware for the office and made a recommendation which was approved. I have maintained a docket calendar and coordinated schedules with Clerks of Courts, keeping legal staff (attorneys) informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. None of the above. 3 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as FTCA claims, FOIA requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take and compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read incoming correspondence and decided appropriate action; and/or I have provided training on new time and attendance procedures to division timekeepers/keyers; and/or I have proofread reports or documents. I have analyzed and prepared budget reports for the cost center manager and made recommendation for cost-cutting; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted Sentry data; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures for closing case files. I have coordinated compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegal; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned any needed corrections to originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects and/or requests. None of the above. 4 Legal Assistants must possess sound communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered sensitive information and composed letters, memos, and forms; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes of a specialized and sensitive nature from internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have edited final correspondence/minutes/notes prepared by others. I have reviewed correspondence, technical in nature, prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared the agenda/program for conferences as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response. I have prepared reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature; and/or I have prepared, proofread and edited miscellaneous correspondence. I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized background information for the supervisor. None of the above. 5 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information to a small group; and/or I have contacted a vendor to gather information on a product; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff members. I have responded to individuals with various policy questions; and/or I have provided technical information to courts and/or other administrative bodies; and/or I have presented information during Institution Familiarization training. After an institution incident, I have conducted mass inmate interviews to obtain information; and/or I have interacted with group/team members regarding projects; and/or I have collected information and presented it to the supervisor; and/or I have advised the supervisor of project status. None of the above. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided formal training for legal assistant staff; and/or I have provided sensitive case information to other legal staff; and/or I have contacted and exchanged specialized information with a witness in a legal case; and/or I have researched and gathered information to verbally respond to appropriate court/public requests; and/or I have verified or exchanged information with legal staff in the institutions, regions or external legal offices. After an institution incident, I have conducted formal mass inmate interviews to obtain information; and/or I have presented information to a small focus group; and/or I have advised supervisor of project status. I have responded to individuals with various policy questions; and/or I have provided technical information to courts and/or other administrative bodies; and/or I have presented information during Institution Familiarization training. None of the above. 3 Legal Assistants coordinate the workflow of a legal office, which has constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained co-workers and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made adjustments to accomplish day-to-day work; and/or I have identified beneficial software-hardware for the office and made a recommendation which was approved. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers; and/or to maintain orderly workflow, I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conferences to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection as assigned by team leader/supervisor. I have organized and maintained logging systems for all work categories in office (i.e., Freedom of Information/Privacy Act requests, Congressional inquiries, chronological letter indexes, etc.); and/or I have coordinated, retrieved and assembled various background material for use in projects/litigation, etc.; and/or I have assisted less experienced legal assistants and other staff in meeting all time lines and due dates. I have maintained docket calendar and coordinated schedules with clerks of courts keeping legal staff (attorneys) informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. None of the above. 4 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as Federal Tort Claims, Freedom of Information requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take, to compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegals; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned for corrections to originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects and/or requests and recommended format for organizing information. I have read and interpreted travel regulations to resolve a travel issue/question from lower level staff; and/or I have trained and evaluated, with input provided to team leader/supervisor, clerical staff in using procedural or operations guidelines; and/or after analyzing, I have interpreted/written local office procedures/policies which were adopted by management. I have independently analyzed and prepared budget report for cost center manager and made recommendation for cost-cutting; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted Sentry data; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures for closing case files. None of the above. 5 Legal Assistants must possess sound communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered sensitive information and composed letters, memos, and forms; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes of a specialized and sensitive nature from internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have edited final correspondence/minutes/notes prepared by others; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and wrote office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized background information for supervisor. I have reviewed correspondence, technical in nature, prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared preliminary agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering technical information and preparing a congressional response. I have retrieved and interpreted data from computer system (Sentry); and/or I have interpreted regulations and policies regarding the Bureau of Prisons' procedures for Administrative Remedies; and/or I have edited final responses for Administrative Remedies and those of others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).