Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choices that describe your background in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in foreign policy or international affairs. I have education or training in foreign policy / international affairs, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have worked in a non-governmental or research organization dealing with foreign policy / international affairs issues. I have worked in an international organization dealing with foreign policy / international affairs issues. I have worked foreign policy / international affairs issues in a United States agency. I have worked in a United States embassy, mission, and/or consulate. 2 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 3 Which of the following type(s) of analysis have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or Financial Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Social or Cultural None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience working in biotechnology policy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in performing this task. I have completed formal training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself and have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 5 From the following list, please identify the types of written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Research and/or development grant proposals Peer reviewed papers (e.g., journals, articles, book chapters) Strategy papers Policy / Position papers (e.g., briefing paper) Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high level officials) Talking points None of the above 6 Which of the following BEST characterizes your experience providing decision makers with high level technical briefings in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no experience providing decision makers with high level technical briefings in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements. I have written high level briefing materials with guidance from a supervisor that communicated complex and technical information in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements. I have experience writing high level technical briefing reports for my supervisor that support ongoing policy development requirements. I have independently developed written material that communicated complex and technical program information and presented that information to a wide variety of stakeholders and satisfactorily answered detailed questions related to this technical information. I have provided decision makers with high level technical briefings and independently developed written material that communicated complex and technical program information and also presented that information to a wide variety of stakeholders and satisfactorily answered detailed questions related to this technical information. 7 Please indicate the manner in which you have communicated orally or made oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Bilateral meetings International meetings Video conferences Leading training sessions Senior policy leader briefings Panelist or Panel Moderator Briefings for Senior Leadership None of the above 8 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience working with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have partnered with one other person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers who each have been designated a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a group (or groups) on many occasions with the objective to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, skills, information, support resources, and also sharing responsibility and recognition for the end product or outcomes. In supervisory or leadership capacity, created atmosphere for teamwork cooperation productivity which had positive impact. None of the above 9 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.