Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 With which of the following types of media technologies do you have education, training or experience? Answer to this question is required Intranet Internet Web Chats Video conferencing Blogs Really Simple Syndication (RSS) Listservs Streaming media Electronic slideshow None of the above 4 With which of the following have you performed public affairs outreach as a significant part of your job? Answer to this question is required Senior officials Congress Foreign news media Domestic news media The public Non-Governmental Organizations U.S. Academia Private sector None of the above 5 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Opinion piece for newspaper Letters to the editor Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications plans Policy guidance Congressional testimony Correspondence Feature articles Talking points Decision memos Brochures Video scripts Books Budget justifications None of the above 6 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have participated on a team to accomplish an objective I have had substantive interactions with senior officials I have had substantive interactions with congressional staff I have conveyed information to U.S. or foreign news media I have conveyed information to the public None of the above 7 Which of the following news media-related roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson Writer / editor Media strategist Media advisor Journalism professor or trainer Journalist Producer / director Publisher News broadcaster None of the above 8 What functions have you performed in connection with world or national events? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson to media on world or national events. Written or edited information materials on world or national events. Organized briefings, lectures, or seminars for the public or specialized audiences on world or national events. Briefed organization leadership or world or national events. None of the above 9 Which of the following describes your experience with the principles of writing and editing? Answer to this question is required I have written about data and ideas in a way that is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have helped others write about data and ideas in a way that is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have reviewed the work of other writers to ensure it is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have completed formal training related to writing and editing material. None of the above. 10 I have performed multi-tasking by employing the following behaviors: Answer to this question is required Managing competing assignments Setting milestones and deadlines for assignments Planning work assignments for self and staff Briefing staff and management on status of assignments Implementing completed work Evaluating completed work None of the above 11 The choices below represent sources of information about U.S. foreign relations. Select all the sources you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of foreign relations. Answer to this question is required Courses Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly news / magazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching news programs Training Travel to foreign countries None of the above 12 Select the type of experience you have had that indicates your ability to be productive and work independently. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Worked independently in establishing priorities. Managed time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handled heavy workload while working within tight deadline pressures. Ensured tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapted behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organized work, determine resource requirements, and evaluate progress. Ensured program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above 13 Select all the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Met with government or business officials, client or customers to discuss policy or strategy. Interviewed government or business officials, client or customers. Represented a work group or organization at meetings. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization. Served as primary liaison with other organizations or other agencies. Responded to public inquires. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 With which of the following types of media technologies do you have education, training or experience? Answer to this question is required Intranet Internet Web Chats Video conferencing Blogs Really Simple Syndication (RSS) Listservs Streaming media Electronic slideshow None of the above 4 With which of the following have you performed public affairs outreach as a significant part of your job? Answer to this question is required Senior officials Congress Foreign news media Domestic news media The public Non-Governmental Organizations U.S. Academia Private sector None of the above 5 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Opinion piece for newspaper Letters to the editor Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications plans Policy guidance Congressional testimony Correspondence Feature articles Talking points Decision memos Brochures Video scripts Books Budget justifications None of the above 6 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have participated on a team to accomplish an objective I have had substantive interactions with senior officials I have had substantive interactions with congressional staff I have conveyed information to U.S. or foreign news media I have conveyed information to the public None of the above 7 Which of the following news media-related roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson Writer / editor Media strategist Media advisor Journalism professor or trainer Journalist Producer / director Publisher News broadcaster None of the above 8 What functions have you performed in connection with world or national events? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson to media on world or national events. Written or edited information materials on world or national events. Organized briefings, lectures, or seminars for the public or specialized audiences on world or national events. Briefed organization leadership or world or national events. None of the above 9 Which of the following describes your experience with the principles of writing and editing? Answer to this question is required I have written about data and ideas in a way that is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have helped others write about data and ideas in a way that is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have reviewed the work of other writers to ensure it is understandable to both informed and general audiences in a government, professional, or academic work environment. I have completed formal training related to writing and editing material. None of the above. 10 I have performed multi-tasking by employing the following behaviors: Answer to this question is required Managing competing assignments Setting milestones and deadlines for assignments Planning work assignments for self and staff Briefing staff and management on status of assignments Implementing completed work Evaluating completed work None of the above 11 The choices below represent sources of information about U.S. foreign relations. Select all the sources you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of foreign relations. Answer to this question is required Courses Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly news / magazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching news programs Training Travel to foreign countries None of the above 12 Select the type of experience you have had that indicates your ability to be productive and work independently. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Worked independently in establishing priorities. Managed time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handled heavy workload while working within tight deadline pressures. Ensured tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapted behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organized work, determine resource requirements, and evaluate progress. Ensured program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above 13 Select all the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Met with government or business officials, client or customers to discuss policy or strategy. Interviewed government or business officials, client or customers. Represented a work group or organization at meetings. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization. Served as primary liaison with other organizations or other agencies. Responded to public inquires. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.