Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to national security in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required International Law Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Homeland Security Clearing intelligence for use with foreign governments Counterterrorism-related sanctions Economics International Development Compliance with counterterrorism-related UN Security Council Resolutions Counterterrorism regimes International crime and drugs Counterterrorism None of the above 2 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to US foreign assistance in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Human Rights Area Studies International Law Educational and/or cultural exchange Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Energy Labor Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of, and compliance, with international agreements / commitments / regimes International crime and drugs Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anticorruption Social Service Health Education None of the above 3 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded colleagues to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action. None of the above. 4 From the following list, please identify the sectors of the foreign affairs community with which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) National Security Agency (NSA) Department of Defense (DOD) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) National Security Council (NSC) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) International Organizations (IO) Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) United Nations (UN) Think Tanks None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation on national security issues based on the results of foreign policy analyses: Answer to this question is required Members of Congress Congressional Staff Senior Executive Branch officials Peers International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 7 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses/assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences/symposia Interviews Press/public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet None of the above 8 Which of the following types of analyses have you performed? Answer to this question is required Statistical Political Economic or financial Sociological Environmental, Science, and Technology Energy Military Security Intelligence Historical Verification of and/or compliance with international agreements, commitments, and regimes. None of the above 9 Which of the following best represents your level of experience developing and recommending policy? Answer to this question is required I have produced a technical or policy report that relayed the implications of findings to a larger context. I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue. I have produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results. I have collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.