Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Indicate which of the following applications have you installed and configured. Answer to this question is required Oracle Microsoft SQL Server Microsoft Exchange Microsoft Office Internet Information Services (IIS) None of the above 2 Which of the following training materials have you developed? Answer to this question is required Distance Learning training content Video Based training content Desktop Application Student Manuals Training Assessment Tools Other I have no experience in developing training materials. 3 Which of the following describes your experience with WCM (web content management systems)? Answer to this question is required I have experience administering users and groups using WCM. I have experience editing web content using WCM I have experience administering users and groups and editing web content using WCM I have experience using Egrail 4.x I have experience using Filenet 5.x I have experience using WebGUI 6.x I have experience using eGroupware I have experience using Hyperware I have used a WCM that is not listed I do not have any experience with WCMs 4 Which of the following databases do you have experience with? Answer to this question is required Oracle Microsoft SQL server DB2 Informix Sybase Unibase Microsoft Access Cache mySQL None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with information technology related policy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with policy research I have education or training in policy research I have reviewed organization-wide policy related to information technology I have interpreted policy related to information technology I have identified applicable policy related to my information technology area of responsibility I have been part of a team that developed policy related to information technology I have independently developed policy related to information technology 6 Indicate which tools you have used to develop web-based applications? Answer to this question is required FrontPage Visual Studio Visual Studio.NET Dreamweaver Ultradev Coldfusion Flash None of the above 7 Which tools have you used to implement web security? Answer to this question is required Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Biometrics Single Sign-on (user ID/password) None of the above 8 Indicate all of the environments in which you have performed troubleshooting. Answer to this question is required In production environments In testing and lab environments For customers or help desk For instructional purposes None of the above 9 From the following list, identify the software applications you have used to analyze data. Answer to this question is required Crystal Ball Egret SAS SPSS STATA Epi Info StatXact StatCalc Statistix S-Plus Minitab EpiXact S-Plus EPILOG None of the above 10 Please indicate all that you have experience with related to the information technology life cycle: Answer to this question is required Systems development life cycle Federal government information technology acquisition process Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Information technology system / project portfolio management Information technology project management Section 508 Accessibility requirements Information Assurance management Enterprise Architecture Configuration Management Usability Testing Quality Assurance Testing Asset Management Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Inventory Management None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best describes the capacity in which you have participated in the systems development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in the systems development life cycle I have functioned as a requirements analyst I have functioned as a tester/quality analyst I have functioned as a junior developer I have functioned as a lead developer I have functioned as a junior application architect I have functioned as a senior application architect 12 Indicate the types of performance metrics that you have personally developed. Answer to this question is required Customer service Call center Hardware / network performance Development Contract performance Budget tracking Due diligence compliance Earned value / Return on Investment Software Asset Management None of the above 13 Identify the information technology terms and concepts that you have used in a work setting: Answer to this question is required Secure cryptographic devices Technologically advanced devices for secure operations Communications controllers Data communications Digital transmission between computers Foreign communications and host country government restrictions Information technology and telegraphic principles, methods, practices and techniques Information technology center operations Radio systems Fixed station high frequency transmitters Control tests and diagnostic facilities Secure systems None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.