Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of responsibility in real property acquisition, transaction portfolio management, and/or real property disposal? Answer to this question is required I led a division (more than 10 real estate staff) responsible for real property acquisition, transaction portfolio management, and/or real property disposal. I led a team (more than 3 real estate staff) responsible for real property acquisition, transaction portfolio management, and/or real property disposal. I participated on a team responsible for real property acquisition, transaction portfolio management, and/or real property disposal. I advised senior management and/or clients on issues pertaining to real property acquisition, transaction management, and/or real property disposal. I have experience independently working on real property acquisition, transaction management, and/or real property disposal. I have experience working on real property acquisitions, transaction management, and/or real property disposals under supervision. None of the above. 2 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 3 Select the answer which best describes your experience with policy matters related to Federal acquisition. Answer to this question is required I have provided policy advice to senior acquisition managers, clients or co-workers, resulting from changes in laws, regulations, or policies. I have made recommendations in the area of Federal acquisition that resulted in operational, procedural changes. I have served in a position where, on a routine basis, I made business decisions based upon my understanding of acquisition policies, regulations and statutes. I have participated as a specialist or team member in the development of how-to or other procedural desk guides or directives for agency use in the area of Federal acquisition. I have reviewed proposed legislation and commented on its anticipated impact. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 5 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 6 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 7 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 8 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 9 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.