Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select&nbsp;the statement(s) that best describe your experience identifying and analyzing human resource programs; making logical decisions and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required I have utilized qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. I have developed or helped develop policies, regulations, procedures and plans for meeting the organization’s goals and objectives. I have prepared and presented analytical information to my superiors within the organization. Analyses were used to explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations. I have identified and analyzed human resources programmatic issues, making logical decisions and providing solutions that have been successful and adopted. None of the above. 3 Which&nbsp;of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing HR policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have experience gathering, evaluating and analyzing data to form conclusions and recommendations that are supported by facts. I also have experience implementing or revising policies, procedures and/or programs. I have experience conducting research and analyzing data. I have participated with others in revising policies, procedures and/or programs. I have experience performing routine research and analysis. None of the above. 4 Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience in human resources functional areas. Answer to this question is required I have evaluated the need to revise HR processes and provided recommendations. I have provided advice and assistance on worker’s and unemployment compensation and benefits. I have provided advice and assistance to supervisors and managers on union agreements, labor relations issues or problems. I have provided advice to management on award programs, disciplinary issues and other HR actions. I have actively participated in the promotion of EEO goals and requirements; and advised management and staff on issues related to Equal Employment Opportunities requirements. None of the above. 5 Select the option that best describes your experience providing guidance and interpretation to managers on labor and employee relations issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training performing this work. I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I have independently performed this work including in unusual or complex situations. I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this work. 6 Select the option that best describes your experience modifying processes to make the most efficient use of human resources. Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have measured the current process by gathering information about redundancies and other problems. In addition to measuring the current process, I have conducted root cause analyses to identify underlying causes of process problems. In addition to measuring the current process and analyzing root causes, I have drafted formal written proposals to resolve underlying causes of process problems. 7 Select the option that best describes your experience providing briefings and findings to management. Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have given supervisors or managers informal updates. I have given formal structured presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings. I have given formal structured presentations of material that was highly technical, controversial or sensitive. 8 Select all applicable activities that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and resolving issues. Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities to a variety of audiences. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. None of the above. 9 Which&nbsp;of the following best reflects your level and experience performing management and program analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 10 For what purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To develop program goals To modify program goals To measure and evaluate program performance and effectiveness To investigate business processes To determine measures required to improve efficiency and quality To perform cost benefit analysis None of the above 11 From&nbsp;the following list, select the programs or types of initiatives that you have regular and recurring experience with. Answer to this question is required Workforce Planning Diversity and Inclusion Development Work Life Programs Succession Planning Employee Suggestions/Award Programs None of the above 12 Select the response(s) that best describes your experience in assisting with managing, directing or administering an important program or significant program segment. Answer to this question is required Assisted with developing and recommendations for program policies, strategies, and goals. Set short-range objectives for the program. Set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws. Assisted with developing program procedures and practices. Reviewed and made recommendations for standard operating procedures. None of the above. 13 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information Presented analyses in person None of the above 14 Do you have a working knowledge of union employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please describe a time and provide examples of your experience(s) working with union employees. Maximum length of 2000 characters. No 15 Have you provided advice on Human Resources policies, procedures, guidelines and a Collective Bargaining Agreement? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please describe a time and provide an example(s) of you providing advice on Human Resources policies, procedures, guidelines and a Collective Bargaining Agreement. Maximum length of 2000 characters. No 16 Do you have a working knowledge of the Collective Bargaining Agreement process for employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please describe a time and provide an example(s) of when you utilized the Collective Bargaining Agreement process for employees. Maximum length of 2000 characters. No 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.