Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of principles, practices, and procedures used with electronics maintenance, equipment repair and troubleshooting.** Evaluated, organized, implemented and coordinated a variety of repair activities that include procuring parts, acquisition, inventory and maintenance in the adequate delivery and quality assurance in a repair unit or facility. Made recommendations on policies and procedures regarding equipment functionality and inspection of released materials. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, independently organized, implemented, coordinated, evaluated and expertly maintained highly specialized repair activities that include procuring parts, acquisition, inventory and maintenance in the adequate delivery and quality assurance in a repair unit, facility, or institution for at least (FIVE) years. As a primary responsibility independently organized, implemented, coordinated, evaluated and expertly maintained highly specialized repair activities that include procuring parts, acquisition, inventory and maintenance in the adequate delivery and quality assurance in a repair unit, similar facility, or cultural institution for at least (THREE) years. As a primary responsibility organized, implemented, coordinated, evaluated and maintained specialized repair activities that include procuring parts, acquisition, inventory and maintenance in the adequate delivery and quality assurance in a repair unit, facility, or institution for at least (ONE) year. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of technical proficiency in assistive technology diagnostics, repair, and maintenance.** Knowledge of applying advanced technical proficiency with diagnostic tools, electronic test equipment, and precision hand tools to troubleshoot, repair, and maintain digital talking book players and electronic Braille readers for multiple lending agencies, ensuring device integrity, interoperability, and compliance with accessibility standards. Answer to this question is required Independently diagnosed and resolved complex or non-standard electronic failures in assistive technology or comparable electronic systems using advanced diagnostic tools and test equipment. Diagnosed and resolved standard electronic failures in assistive technology or comparable electronic systems using diagnostic tools and test equipment. Under supervision, diagnosed and resolved standard and electronic failires in assistive technology or comparable electronic systems using diagnostic tools and test equipment. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the characteristics, properties, and uses of electrical equipment.** Applied knowledge of the characteristics, properties and uses of electrical equipment to evaluate, acquire, dispose of, and perform quality assurance on electrical equipment, components, or parts. Answer to this question is required Resolved highly complex and unusual problems associated with entire electrical equipment systems, such as electronic equipment and audio equipment. Collected, interpreted, and integrated specialized information about equipment components, such as electronic equipment and audio equipment. Gathered, compiled, and provided technical information about a limited variety of classes of electrical equipment parts, for electronic equipment and audio equipment. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Conveyed information in written form such as contracts (SOW and RFP's), reports, development of equipment manuals or procedures, emails or other documents. Answer to this question is required Researched a broad range of information sources to analyze and present information. Prepared statements of work, requests for proposals, equipment manuals, operating procedures and checklists as well as other documents outlining the operation and maintenance of highly specialized motion picture audio and video equipment. Used a variety of information sources to analyze and present information. Assisted in the preparation of statements of work, requests for proposals, equipment manuals, operating procedures and checklists as well as other documents outlining the operation and maintenance of highly specialized motion picture audio and video equipment. Used pre-existing information to analyze and present information. Is familiar with the preparation of statements of work, requests for proposals, equipment manuals, operating procedures and checklists as well as other documents outlining the operation and maintenance of motion picture audio and video equipment. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to meet, deal and interact collaboratively with others to provide a variety of services. Developed, maintained and worked well with a variety of individuals in establishing working relationships within internal and external organizations, federal government agencies, potential vendors and contractors to provide technical assistance and services. Answer to this question is required Developed and coordinated activities with individuals, in-house organizations, other agencies, vendors, contractors, trade or professional organizations, and private parties, such as providing advice and assistance on preventive maintenance scheduling, custom equipment design and modification of existing systems. Coordinated activities with other individuals, in-house organizations, other agencies, vendors, and contractors, such as providing advice and assistance on preventive maintenance scheduling, custom equipment design and modification of existing systems. Maintained relationships among a variety of in-house organizations, other government agencies, vendors and contractors. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).