Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 4 Select the statement(s) that describe how you have applied person-to-person communication skills as a regular part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have clarified/interpreted rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have delivered presentations to large groups at work or in other environments. I have briefed managers / executives outside of my organization. I have initiated discussions with employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have functioned as a spokesperson for an organization. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated meetings and/or discussion groups. None of the above. 5 At what level have you organized planned and coordinated activities? Answer to this question is required Across organizations Organization-wide Major division Work unit None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your level of authority to recommend changes to, or alter the workflow of, the office for which you are responsible? Answer to this question is required Based on established procedures and guidelines, I recognize non-routine or unusual situations and refer them to my supervisor along with recommended solutions. I have / am responsible for planning, establishing, and managing the workflow of the office. My determinations and recommendations are, generally, accepted without change. I operate with substantial freedom in planning, organizing, and directing the workflow management of the office, keeping my supervisor apprised of progress and developing issues. I independently plan the workflow of the office and apply accepted practices to resolve work problems or accomplish the objective. None of the above. 7 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have participated on a team to accomplish an objective I have had substantive interactions with senior officials I have had substantive interactions with congressional staff I have conveyed information to U.S. or foreign news media I have conveyed information to the public None of the above 8 Please select from the following statements those that illustrate your experience(s) as a Special Assistant, Assistant, or Aide to a senior official: Answer to this question is required I have handled logistical preparations for international climate change negotiations. I have arranged meetings for senior officials. I have coordinated meetings involving more than one organization or institution. I have managed the appointments calendar for senior officials. I have drafted reports, documents and talking points for senior officials to use in climate change negotiations. None of the above. 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Technical reports Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Directives Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Analysis of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 10 From the list below, select all of the tasks that you have performed to organize and control documents or correspondence: Answer to this question is required Used a pre-established, standardized document and records filing system. Handled records in accordance with employer`s policies and regulations. Logged and established routing and suspense dates for incoming correspondence. Organized a body of correspondence and/or documents in proper sequence to facilitate review by other parties. Utilized computer software for document management (e.g., storage, retrieval, distribution). None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 4 Select the statement(s) that describe how you have applied person-to-person communication skills as a regular part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have clarified/interpreted rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have delivered presentations to large groups at work or in other environments. I have briefed managers / executives outside of my organization. I have initiated discussions with employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have functioned as a spokesperson for an organization. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated meetings and/or discussion groups. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your level of authority to recommend changes to, or alter the workflow of, the office for which you are responsible? Answer to this question is required Based on established procedures and guidelines, I recognize non-routine or unusual situations and refer them to my supervisor along with recommended solutions. I have / am responsible for planning, establishing, and managing the workflow of the office. My determinations and recommendations are, generally, accepted without change. I operate with substantial freedom in planning, organizing, and directing the workflow management of the office, keeping my supervisor apprised of progress and developing issues. I independently plan the workflow of the office and apply accepted practices to resolve work problems or accomplish the objective. None of the above. 6 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. 7 I have experience in writing the following types of technical and non-technical information. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Briefing or position paper Policy analysis Program evaluation Analysis of alternatives Correspondence Congressional correspondence Press release Speech Investigative report Thesis Standard operating procedures Mission statement Any work published in academic journal None of the above 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience resolving conflicting points of view? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required a great deal of sensitivity to different personal styles and the ability to defuse high emotions where long-standing conflict had eroded trust and cooperation between individuals. 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Policy guidance Speeches Technical reports Regulatory / statutory material Congressional testimony / congressional inquiries Analyes of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Budget justification Federal Register notices None of the above 11 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Inspection reports Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Official Correspondence Informal correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures Directives Regulatory material (e.g. codes and standards) Policy guidance Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 12 Knowledge of administrative concepts, principles, and practices in order to recommend changes in administrative policies and devise and establish procedures and office practices. Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and proposing recommendations for appropriate changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices sufficient to operate as a clerical or administrative support person in an office. I have experience as a lead support person using a variety of secretarial, clerical or administrative practices and procedures. I have limited or no working experience as a lead clerical person using administrative concepts, principles and practices. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the staff of an organization. I have no experience establishing or recommending office procedures or changes to an office. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.