Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to perform media outreach activities.** Performed outreach to media and other external audiences, working in a public affairs or communications environment. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) articulating full range of services and resources of the organization to media and external audiences; 3) writing and pitching news releases and other materials for publication; and 4) ensuring the service that best meets client needs. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed outreach to media and external audiences, working in a public affairs or communications environment in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; determining level of service required; writing and pitching news releases or other materials for publication; connecting media with the appropriate program, service, or resource that best meets the client needs; and resolving any difficulties or complaints. Developed and implemented outreach strategies for media to generate news coverage. Frequently performed outreach activities to media while working in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the range of products, services, and resources; writing news releases or other materials for publication; and connecting media with the appropriate program, service, or resource that best meets the client needs. Referred complaints to supervisor for resolution. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. Occasionally performed outreach activities in an academic, agency, organization or corporation. This included providing an overview of products, services, or resources and referring clients to supervisor when appropriate. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of marketing and communications principles and techniques for creating, producing, and distributing informational and promotional materials.** Created, produced, and distributed informational and promotional materials such as press releases, articles, talking points and brochures. Answer to this question is required Conceptualized, designed, developed, produced, and distributed communications, marketing or promotional information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. Contributed ideas, strategies, and concepts to the design, development, production, and distribution of communications, marketing or promotional information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. Worked as a team member in communications, marketing or promoting information in a wide variety of current and emerging media. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to perform client services and outreach activities.** Performed client services and outreach duties with individuals working in a public affairs or communications environment. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) articulating full range of communications services and resources of the organization to clients; 3) advising clients on recommended strategies, tactics and best practices to meet communications goals; and 4) ensuring the service that best meets client needs. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed client services and outreach activities in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; determining level of service required; advising clients on recommended strategies, tactics and best practices to meet communications goals; connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs; and resolving any difficulties or complaints. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. Frequently performed client services and outreach activities in an academic institution, agency, organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; working with supervisor to advise clients on recommended strategies, tactics and best practices; and connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs. Referred complaints to supervisor for resolution. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. Occasionally performed client services and outreach activities in an academic, agency, organization or corporation. This included providing an overview of products, services, or resources and referring clients to supervisor when appropriate. Developed and implemented outreach strategies. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide liaison services. Interacted collaboratively with others and provided liaison services to exchange information with persons and groups inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Initiated and developed professional contacts to establish and maintain cooperative relationships and explain vital information to high-level managers; and worked collaboratively with executives and senior managers, staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed and/or maintained professional contacts or cooperative relationships and presented information to high-level managers, and worked collaboratively with executives and senior managers, staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed and/or maintained professional contacts to establish cooperative relationships and explained information to managers, and worked collaboratively with staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to attend to detail. Verified the accuracy, completeness, and format of own and others' information and documents. This included checking consistency, facts, style, and sources; identifying missing or inconsistent information by reviewing printed and electronic documents, data, tables, forms, or lists; etc Answer to this question is required Frequently conducted the final quality review of administrative and informational documents and verified the accuracy and completeness of content, style, and format of materials sent to clients. Independently corrected errors or gaps in information, or reported errors or gaps in data to the appropriate person for resolution. Was responsible for accuracy of documents and data. Regularly conducted the final quality review of administrative and informational documents and data to verify the accuracy and completeness of content, style, and format of materials sent to clients. Worked with colleagues or supervisor to correct errors or gaps in data. Was responsible for accuracy of documents and data. Occasionally conducted the final quality review of administrative and informational documents to ensure completeness. Was responsible for accuracy of documents and data. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).