Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following tasks have you performed as a registrar for an exhibition curated in-house that did not travel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have been the managing registrar for an in-house exhibition of accessioned collection objects. I have been the managing registrar for an in-house exhibition of accessioned collection objects and domestic loans. I have been the managing registrar for an in-house exhibition of accessioned collection objects and domestic and international loans. I have assembled and distributed lender exhibition requirements and ensured the museum’s full compliance therewith. I have scheduled couriers in accordance with exhibition needs. I have assisted the managing registrar with tasks for an in-house exhibition. I have overseen contract or staff art handlers during an installation. None of the above. 3 Which of the following tasks have you have performed as a registrar managing multi-venue traveling exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have negotiated incoming domestic loans for a traveling exhibition. I have negotiated incoming international loans for a traveling exhibition. I have applied for Immunity from Seizure. I have overseen crating for a traveling exhibition, including seeking estimates and crate plans for the fabrication of new crates. I have reviewed facility reports from prospective venues. I have negotiated the terms of an exhibitions contract. I have distributed exhibition requirements to venues and, through conversation with their staff, ensured their compliance therewith. I have arranged for the shipment of a traveling exhibition to domestic venue(s). I have arranged for the shipment of a traveling exhibition to international venue(s). None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience managing the transportation, insurance, security, packing and shipping of museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed daily visual verification checks of museum items on exhibit for location verification and condition status. I have arranged for the insurance of museum objects and loans. I have identified and inspected long and short term secure fine arts spaces for staging exhibitions and storing collections. I have prepared packing and shipping cost estimates for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have prepared shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate plans/lists for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have organized packing and shipping arrangements for objects and art to be shipped internationally. I have made special security arrangements to support the shipping of high value objects. I have couriered museum objects domestically. I have couriered museum objects internationally. None of the above. 5 Which of the following exhibition-related loan responsibilities best describes your experience? Answer to this question is required I have utilized existing loan forms and request letter templates to create loan request documents for exhibitions in a museum or gallery setting. I have created and/or updated loan documents in accordance with current registrarial policies and practices. I have been the primary liaison with exhibition lenders and negotiated loan terms with external lenders for incoming loans to a museum or gallery exhibition. I have managed at least three exhibitions in a museum or gallery organization, prepared and tracked all loan documentation, and communicated loan conditions to appropriate museum staff for the proper care of loans to the exhibition. I have managed at least three exhibitions per year in a museum or gallery organization, maintained all exhibition project records, upheld loan requirements, anticipated loan budgets, and prepared exhibition documents for traveling exhibitions including special conditions for lent works. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in drafting loan agreements/ contracts in a museum? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with museum loan agreements. I have assisted Museum Registrars in drafting loan agreements. I have developed contracts for loaning/borrowing of museum objects and established terms of a loan agreement between lenders and borrowers that outlined terms and conditions of the loan (including responsibilities). I have completed loan agreements for a museum under guidance of a Registrar or supervisor. I have overseen loan agreement documentation in a museum concerning objects for a variety of purposes such as exhibitions, research, photography, exhibit preparation, conservation, etc. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in answering questions regarding loan agreements and requirements? Answer to this question is required I have responded independently to questions regarding museum loan agreements and requirements. I regularly answer general questions regarding loan agreements and some of the requirements. I have limited experience responding to questions about loan agreements. I have no experience responding to questions regarding loan agreements. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting physical collections condition assessments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have experience conducting a collections assessment. I have physically examined objects to account for their condition. I have applied museum numbers to objects. I have updated or created electronic object records. I have handled objects following appropriate preservation practices. I have photographed objects. 9 Which of the following activities related to outgoing and incoming loans in a museum have you performed? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have evaluated loan requests and facilities reports. I have identified, assessed, and managed risk factors for loan objects. I have negotiated loan requirements, and prepared loan agreements. I have completed loan renewal, return, and recall processes. I have handled insurance arrangements and projections for loan objects. I have documented and tracked loan details in a collections information database and paper records. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries, pick-ups and special requirements? Answer to this question is required I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries, pick-ups and special requirements. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, packing firms and shippers on all incoming and outgoing Museum (or similar setting) shipments to determine and coordinate deliveries. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders, borrowers, and packing firms. I have experience initiating and maintaining contact with lenders and borrowers. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing budgets for temporary and traveling loan exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have prepared packing, shipping, insurance, and courier cost estimates for modern and contemporary art exhibitions traveling to domestic and international museums, or other cultural venues. I have prepared packing, shipping, insurance, and courier cost estimates for modern or contemporary art exhibitions traveling to museums, or other cultural venues, within the US. I have prepared packing, shipping, and insurance estimates for art exhibitions traveling to museums, or other cultural venues, within the US. I have not prepared budgets for temporary or traveling loan exhibitions. 12 Which of the following tasks best describes your experience with managing budgets? Answer to this question is required I have helped develop budgets based on prior expenditures for similar projects. I have monitored a project budget and expenses to ensure the projects remained within limits. I have monitored multiple project budgets to ensure all projects remained within limits. I have assisted in the development of multi-year, project budgets while collaborating with multiple departments and ensuring the budgets remain on track. I have developed multi-year project budgets (including for traveling exhibitions) while collaborating with multiple departments to ensure all anticipated expenses are captured and projects remained within limits. I have not done any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing a Registration Department budget? Answer to this question is required A regular on-going component of my work has been to prepare annual department budgets and projected budgets for upcoming projects. I have prepared budgets for specific projects such as traveling exhibitions, incoming and outgoing loans, or international and domestic acquisitions. I have contributed specific budget information for overall annual departmental budgets. I have contributed specific budget information for upcoming projects. I have gathered (as requested) budgetary information. I have no experience preparing budget items. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.