Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-201-9 HR Specialist (Payroll &amp; Benefits) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Processing routine and complex federal personnel actions, payroll documents, and benefits forms, including retirements. 2. Using HR systems including National Finance Center (NFC), electronic retirement system(s), electronic official personnel file (eOPF) system, electronic time and attendance system(s). 3. Anticipating problems and providing solutions to payroll, benefits, and processing errors/issues. 4. Handling military pay and leave inquiries. I have a combination of both qualifying education and specialized experience. None of the above. Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-201-11 HR Specialist (Payroll &amp; Benefits) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Independently processing routine and complex personnel actions, payroll documents, and benefits forms, including retirements. 2. Conducting informational presentations and providing consultation to new and current employees on FEHB, FEDVIP, FEGLI, and TSP programs. 3. Independently conducting retirement annuity estimates and processes civilian and military deposit requests. 4. Developing and delivering informational briefings and training materials on payroll and benefits programs, whether federal or non-federal. 5. Using HR systems and granting access to HR systems including National Finance Center (NFC), electronic retirement system(s), electronic official personnel file (eOPF) system, electronic time and attendance system(s). I have a combination of qualifying education and specialized experience. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Choose a method of consideration- Please select one choice from the following: Answer to this question is required (MP only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action). Please consider me through the merit promotion process in which I will compete with all status applicants. (NC only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure OR a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) OR I am eligible for noncompetitive consideration because I am currently holding or have held a permanent grade that is equal to or above the full performance level/promotion potential of the position being advertised OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran, Former Peace Corps Volunteer, Former Peace Corps Employee, Military Spouse or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. (MP & NC)-I am a Federal employee in the competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure OR a prior Federal employee with reinstatement, as indicated on my SF-50. Please consider me via merit promotion. Also, please consider me via the non-competitive process as I'm a Federal employee in the competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure OR a prior Federal employee with reinstatement as indicated on my SF-50 OR I am eligible for noncomp. consideration as I currently hold or have held a permanent grade that is equal to or above the full performance level/promotion potential of the position being advertised OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran, Former Peace Corps Volunteer or Employee, Military Spouse or other additional OPM non-competitive authorities. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).