Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to Grade 09 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your previous job experience in maintaining servo&nbsp; systems for astronomical telescopes? Answer to this question is required I have in-depth experience with PMAC servo controllers applied to analog and digital servo systems at an astronomical observatory. I have maintained digital servo systems at an astronomical observatory. I have maintained analog servo systems at an astronomical observatory. I have worked on analog or digital servo systems in any industry. I have education in servo systems. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your previous job experience in evaluating components for high performance servo systems? Answer to this question is required I have worked with a team of electrical or electronic engineers or scientists evaluating analog and digital components for high performance servo systems. I have worked with a team of engineers evaluating components and systems for high performance servo systems. I have independently evaluated components and systems for high performance servo systems. I have worked with a team of engineers on high performance servo systems. I have education in high performance servo systems. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your knowledge of the concepts of electronic engineering applied to analog and digital systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I understand the theory and operation of sub arcsecond analog and digital servo systems. I understand the theory and operation of precision analog servo systems. I understand the theory and operation of PWM servo amplifiers. I understand the theory and operation of analog to digital converters. I understand the theory and operation of microprocessors. I understand the schematics, timing diagrams, or other documentation that describes high speed digital systems. I understand schematics, timing diagrams, or other documentation that describes analog and digital electronics systems. I understand schematics and wiring diagrams. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your previous job experience in fabricating prototype systems? Answer to this question is required I have assembled systems based on detailed schematics, wiring diagrams, parts lists, and assembly drawings. I have fabricated systems based on detailed schematics alone. I have fabricated systems based on functional design documentation. I have fabricated systems based on verbal scientific ideas. None of the above. 6 In which areas do you have previous job experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Repairing multi-layer circuit boards Soldering and unsoldering surface mount components on multi-layered boards Fabricated and testing prototype hardware Cable harness fabrication Chassis assembly Connector soldering or crimping None of the above 7 Which types of systems do you have previous job experience aligning? Answer to this question is required Precision alignment of support structures Precision alignment of polyphase motor drives Precision alignment of rotating systems Alignment (meshing) of drive gears None of the above 8 Which of the following software programs do you have previous job experience using to&nbsp; perform electronic or mechanical layouts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Spice AutoCAD Visio SolidWorks Excel/Word None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience operating relevant test equipment&nbsp; including high speed digital oscilloscopes, protocol analyzer, logic analyzer, spectrum&nbsp; analyzer, etc.? Answer to this question is required I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in utilizing and operating this equipment. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision for supervisors or senior employees. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 10 Which test equipment do you have experience using as a frequent part of a previous job?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Logic analyzer Communication protocol analyzer Spectrum analyzer High speed digital oscilloscopes Digital voltmeter None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your previous job expertise in troubleshooting analog and digital systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have education or training in this area. I am proficient in troubleshooting analog systems, but not digital. I am proficient in troubleshooting digital systems, but not analog. I am proficient in troubleshooting both analog and digital systems. I am an expert in troubleshooting analog systems and proficient in digital. I am an expert in troubleshooting digital systems and proficient in analog. I am an expert in troubleshooting both analog and digital systems. 12 In which areas do you have previous job experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Maintenance and repair of 480 VAC three phase systems and equipment Arc Flash and Arc Blast safety procedures Hydraulic systems and the sensors and valves used in these systems Flooded cell lead acid battery maintenance and troubleshooting Installing and troubleshooting up to 208 VAC three phase systems and equipment None of the above 13 Have you performed preventive and corrective maintenance and first level diagnostics on the following electrical and electromechanical systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required 480 VAC electrical distribution systems 120/208 VAC electrical distribution systems Hydraulic control systems Uninterruptible power systems None of the above View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.