Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which statement best describes your experience writing and editing museum exhibit scripts? Answer to this question is required I have written and edited entire label scripts for exhibitions as a regular part of a job for scientific, historic, or educational institutions. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have written and edited portions of scripts for scientific, historic, or educational institutions. I have performed it with the review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience editing exhibit script labels with review by a supervisor. I have education and/or training in writing and editing exhibit scripts. I have no experience writing or editing scripts for a scientific, historic, or educational institutions. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience in writing and editing interpretive material from complex historical or scientific content for science or history institution general audiences? Answer to this question is required I have written and edited materials that interpret complex historical or scientific content for science or history institution general audiences. I have served as an assistant or otherwise directly assisted senior staff with writing and editing materials that interpret complex historical or scientific content for science or history institution general audiences. I have edited materials that interpret complex historical or scientific content for science or history institution general audiences. I do not have experience writing or editing materials that interpret complex historical or scientific content for science or history institution general audiences. 4 Which best describes your level of experience writing and editing interpretive exhibition scripts for museums or cultural organizations? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a lead writer/editor responsible for writing interpretive exhibition scripts for a museum or cultural organization and submitted final edited script. I have worked under the supervision of a lead writer/editor assisting the lead and made changes to interpretive exhibition script based on leader’s suggestions in a museum or cultural organization. I have professional experience writing and editing but not for museum exhibitions. I do not have any professional experience writing or editing. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience ensuring that there is a logical arrangement to the information presented in exhibition scripts and other exhibition-related documents? Answer to this question is required I have independently provided editorial advice and comments relating to the arrangement of information for exhibition scripts and related documents for a museum or cultural organization. I have worked under the supervision of a lead writer/editor to provide editorial advice and comments relating to the arrangement of information for exhibition scripts and related documents for a museum or cultural organization. I have provided editorial input relating to the arrangement of information in a major creative project, but not for exhibition scripts or exhibition-related documents. I do not provided editorial input relating to the arrangement of information in a major creative project. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with leading teams in a museum to create exhibition scripts that convey complex messages that have a uniform style and tone? Answer to this question is required I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages with a uniform style and tone. I have assisted a senior writer editor in helping a museum or science center exhibit team create scripts that convey complex messages. I have participated on a museum or science center exhibit team that was creating scripts that conveyed complex messages. I have no experience with working on a museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages with a uniform style and tone. 7 Which of the following statement best describes your experience in being the lead writer editor on a museum or science center exhibition? Answer to this question is required I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions of 5000 square feet or larger. I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions of 1000 to 5000 square feet. I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions smaller than 1000 square feet. I have led exhibit teams in creating scripts for non-historic or non-science exhibitions. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with managing, negotiating, and responding to editorial comments from multiple reviewers? Answer to this question is required I have worked on large project teams with multiple members and have regularly taken the lead in managing, negotiating, and responding to editorial comments from multiple reviewers. I have worked on large project teams with multiple members assisting a project lead in managing, negotiating, and responding to editorial comments from multiple reviewers. I have worked on small project teams with a few members and have managed, negotiated, and responded to editorial comments from multiple reviewers. I have worked independently with an author or editor and have managed, negotiated, and responded to the editorial comments of a single reviewer. I have no experience with managing, negotiating, and responding to editorial comments. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in editing other's work and in developing grammatical and stylistic policy? Answer to this question is required I have edited others work and have been part of a team that made grammatical and stylistic policy suggestions. I have edited others' work, made suggestions on grammatical and stylistic policy suggestions for consideration, and collaborated with stakeholders and subject matter experts to implement these suggestions in a collaborative manner. I have edited other's work and have used the insight gained from this experience to suggest grammatical and stylistic policy suggestions for consideration by my organization or agency. I have experience editing other peoples work but do not have experience making grammatical and stylistic policy suggestions for an organization or agency. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with leading teams in a museum to create exhibition scripts that convey complex messages that have a uniform style and tone? Answer to this question is required I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages with a uniform style and tone. I have assisted a senior writer editor in helping a museum or science center exhibit team create scripts that convey complex messages. I have participated on a museum or science center exhibit team that was creating scripts that conveyed complex messages. I have no experience with working on a museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages with a uniform style and tone. 11 Which of the following statement best describes your experience in being the lead writer editor on a museum or science center exhibition? Answer to this question is required I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions of 5000 square feet or larger. I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions of 1000 to 5000 square feet. I have led museum or science center exhibit teams in creating scripts that convey complex messages for exhibitions smaller than 1000 square feet. I have led exhibit teams in creating scripts for non-historic or non-science exhibitions. I have no experience working as a lead writer in a museum or science center exhibition. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience conceptualizing, researching, and writing content for museum audiences? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a member of a project team researching, organizing, developing, and writing substantive content published or presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I have served as a research assistant or otherwise directly assisted senior staff with content development such as exhibition labels, scholarly publications, or program materials for a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I have independently researched, organized, developed, and written substantive content for a creative project—such as a website, publication, or exhibition—published or presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I do not have experience researching, organizing, and writing content for museum audiences. 13 Which of the following statements describes your level of experience participating in the exhibit development process? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked as a member of an exhibition team and drafted the main message and theme statements for an exhibition in a science or history museum. I have worked as a member of an exhibition team and written the label script for an exhibition in a science or history museum. I have worked as an intermittent member of an exhibition team and edited the label script for an exhibition in a science or history museum. I have never worked on an exhibition team in a science or history museum. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience writing and editing substantive content for a variety of audiences? Answer to this question is required I have extensive professional experience translating complex language and ideas into language easily understandable by a variety of audiences on major creative projects such as exhibition scripts for a museum, historical, or cultural organization. I have professional experience working under the supervision of a lead writer/editor translating complex language and ideas into language easily understandable by a variety of audiences on major creative projects such as exhibition scripts for a museum, historical, or cultural organization. As a member of a team, I have substantively edited materials that required translating complex language and ideas into language easily understandable by a variety of audiences. I do not have experience writing or editing for a variety of audiences. 15 What is your experience in writing and/or editing text that supports and interprets visual elements, objects, and graphics in a museum setting? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a lead writer/editor responsible for coordinating exhibition text with visual elements and objects. I have worked under the supervision of a lead writer/editor coordinating exhibition text with visual elements and objects. I have worked as a writer/editor coordinating text with visual elements. I have no experience coordinating text with visual elements. 16 Which of the following writing/editing/researching functions describes your experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written descriptive text for objects. I have written exhibition catalogue text. I have participated in determine type and content of printed materials. I have produced written material for fund-raising. I have researched complex subject matter for publication. I have edited the written material of others. None of the above. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience editing substantive content for museum exhibits including exhibition scripts, in-house documents, catalogs, interactives, and media? Answer to this question is required I have worked as the project editor responsible for the writing and editing exhibition scripts for a museum. I have worked under the supervision of a project editor to write and edit primary content for a creative project (such as an museum exhibit, interactive, book, or website) published or presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. As a member of a project team I have copyedited and proofread substantive content published presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization I do not have experience editing content appropriate for publication. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your experience proofreading graphic materials for museum exhibitions, including exhibit label panels, promotional material, web, and multimedia elements? Answer to this question is required I have worked as the project editor responsible for editing and proofreading the appropriateness and accuracy of exhibit graphic materials using knowledge of typography and proofreading. I have worked under the supervision of a project editor to edit and proofread the appropriateness and accuracy of exhibit graphic materials using knowledge of typography and proofreading. I have assisted in editing and proofreading of exhibit label graphics. I do not have experience editing and proofreading of exhibit label graphics. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.