Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to communicate in writing.** Produced clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation for communications for an agency or organization program. Written products included: 1) executive level briefings; 2) manuscripts; 3) informative and/or promotional materials for wide distribution or display (e.g., captions, scripts, signage, articles, brochures, fliers, press kits, formal announcements, letters, etc.); 4) correspondence; and 5) memoranda. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met deadlines. Systematically ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required editing by supervisors. Independently or under minimal supervision, wrote FOUR (4) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by supervisors. Independently or under minimal supervision, wrote THREE (3) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Met assignment deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by supervisors. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to edit materials for publication.** Using established editing principles and techniques, including Bluebook style and publishing technologies, reviewed and edited new and updated online and printed documents in a professional work environment. Rewrote, reorganized, and recommended ways of presenting material to guarantee balance, accuracy, appropriate tone, confidentiality, clarity, thoroughness, and addressed syntax, punctuation, and style. Answer to this question is required As the agency or organization authority on editing and publishing, frequently and without supervision reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of difficult documents (e.g., multi-authored documents, technical user guides, fact sheets; routinely updated research reports, legal analyses) in a professional work environment for subject matter experts, customers and senior management. Using a high level of editorial expertise, reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of documents (e.g., articles, study guides, newsletters, training materials, proposals, catalogs, handbooks) in a professional work environment for an audience of subject matter experts and clients. Frequently reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of documents (e.g., memoranda, management reports, promotion literature) in a professional environment for subject matter expert. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to lead and direct a cooperative publishing program.** Performed a variety of duties for the management and development of a publishing program, in doing so: 1) developed and oversaw the implementation of a publishing plan; 2) established and maintained schedules and timelines; 3) appraised staffing and contractor resources; 4) evaluated production marketing and promotion; 5) assessed traditional and electronic distribution channels for publications; 6) formulated, interpreted, and applied publishing policies and practices; 7) established working relationships with other publishing organizations; 8) made recommendations on internal and external program and policy issues; 9) acted as liaison with other publishing organizations; and 10) initiated, received, and assessed proposals for publishing projects. Answer to this question is required Managed and directed a cooperative publishing program in a professional association, business environment, or government agency. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above tasks. Managed and directed a cooperative publishing program in a professional association, business environment, or government agency. In doing so, conducted EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above tasks. Coordinated multiple publishing projects. In doing so, conducted SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above tasks. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked collaboratively and developed professional relationships with a wide variety of individuals internal and external to the agency/organization (staff at all levels, management officials, vendors, stakeholders, contractors, and the general public) to accomplish program goals and resolve problems and issues. This included actively seeking input and contributing one's own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Independently and actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish HIGHLY COMPLEX, mission-critical activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND/OR EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines WITHIN ONE’S OWN DIVISION or ORGANIZATION to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan and manage projects. Demonstrated experience in planning, coordinating and implementation of projects. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) identified the topic and scope, 2) developed the project plan, 3) established and defined deliverables and milestones, 4) gathered the project requirements and stakeholder expectations, 5) participated in discussions to work toward solutions, 6) maintained a project schedule and evaluated project progress, and 7) produced on-time deliverables. Answer to this question is required As a lead or team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, independently or with minimal supervision, conducted FIVE (5) to SIX (6) of the above tasks. As a lead or team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, independently or with minimal supervision, conducted THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. As a lead or team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, independently or with minimal supervision, conducted up to TWO (2) of the above tasks. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).