Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Additional Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications Required" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess 4 years of education above high school. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above Specialized experience is defined as having experience in at least 4 of the 7 areas below : (1) Receiving, initiating and updating service requests for building repairs and maintenance; (2) Using systems to enter, maintain and correct data and records; (3) Interpreting and/or applying regulatory or procedural requirements; (4) Receiving and screening telephone calls relevant to activities of the office; (5) Initiating and routing work orders using the Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) program and tracking status of service requests/orders to appropriate trade shop; (6) Communicates (verbal and written) clearly and respectfully with managers to foster trust and positive collaboration; (7) Provide excellent customer service to serve as central point of contact between customers, service technicians, internal departments to minimize disruption and maintain internal/external customer satisfaction. 2 Which of the following activities describe your experience communicating with others verbally. Answer to this question is required Provided customer service by telephone (e.g. call center, help desk, or reception desk) Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task Explained issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations Identified and obtained mission information, including from individuals who were reticent to respond Responded to requests for information from high-ranking officials and VIPs None of the above Grade: 06 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position.&nbsp; Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the Statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in at least 6 of the 9 areas below: (1) Knowledge of HVAC, electrical, plumbing technical skills to receive, initiate and updating service requests for building repairs, schedule maintenance and transmits repair orders to the appropriate trade shop (s) and/or laborer section for action; (3) Using systems to enter, maintain and correct data and records; (4) Interpreting and/or applying regulatory or procedural requirements; (5) Receiving and screening telephone calls relevant to activities of the office; (6) Initiating and routing work orders using the Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) program and tracking status of service requests/orders to appropriate trade shop; (7) Interpret and/or apply safety, environmental, and other regulatory or procedural requirements; (8) Communicates (verbal and written) clearly and respectfully with managers to foster trust and positive collaboration; (9) Provide excellent customer service to serve as central point of contact between customers, service technicians, internal departments to minimize disruption and maintain internal/external customer satisfaction. 2 Which response best describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances in a special events office (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned or organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of staff`s work within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by cross-functional project teams in difficult circumstances. 3 Choose the following trades you have knowledge and experience with.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Plumbing Electric HVAC Other None of the above Grade: 07 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having all the experience listed below: (1) Knowledge of HVAC, electrical, plumbing technical skills to receive, initiate and updating service requests for building repairs, schedule maintenance and transmits repair orders to the appropriate trade shop (s) and/or laborer section for action. (2) Utilize Microsoft products to enter, maintain, and correct data and records; (3) Interpret and/or apply safety, environmental, and other regulatory or procedural requirements; (4) Receiving and screening telephone calls relevant to activities of the office; (5)&nbsp; Use the Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) program to&nbsp; prepare and track inventory, work orders, and service request/order status of appropriate trade shop (i.e., HVAC, Electrical, plumbing etc..); (6) Ability to multitask, prioritize tasks, and remain calm under pressure in a fast-past environment interacting with a variety shops, Members of Congress and their staff and internal and external customers; (7) Communicates (verbal and written) clearly and respectfully with managers to foster trust and positive collaboration; (8) Provide excellent customer service to serve as central point of contact between customers, service technicians, internal departments to minimize disruption and maintain internal/external customer satisfaction; (9) Communicates (verbal and written) clearly and respectfully with managers to foster trust and positive collaboration; (10) Provide excellent customer service to serve as central point of contact between customers, service technicians, internal departments to minimize disruption and maintain internal/external customer satisfaction. 2 Which response best describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances in a special events office (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned or organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of staff`s work within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by cross-functional project teams in difficult circumstances. 3 Choose the following trades you have knowledge and experience with.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Plumbing Electric HVAC Other None of the above 4 Do you have the ability to multitask, prioritize tasks, and remain calm under pressure in a fast-paced environment interacting with a variety of trade shops (i.e., HVAC, Electrical, Plumbing...etc.)? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, scheduling, and organizing work to meet customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning, scheduling, or organizing work. I have participated as a team member to plan, schedule, and organize work. I have independently planned, scheduled, and organized work. I have led a team to plan, schedule, and organize work. 2 Select the statement(s) that describes your experience in providing administrative/clerical support and customer service. Answer to this question is required I have experience providing a full range of administrative/clerical support work for an organization with varied functions. I have experience researching and responding to inquiries concerning projects and activities. I have participated in the development of administrative/clerical procedures for quality improvement within an organization. I have experience providing effective customer service including receiving visitors and phone calls. I have experience in scheduling and coordinating the use of conferencing rooms. None of the above 3 Which facility maintenance activities have you independently performed on a regular basis using Microsoft Word? Answer to this question is required Created work orders Reviewed work orders for accuracy Searched for and located work orders Printed work orders Closed-out work orders Created tables Set up forms Set up correspondence Created mail merges Inserted tables Inserted graphics Formatted text None of the above 4 Which activities have you performed in email software (e.g., Microsoft Outlook)? Answer to this question is required I have composed and sent emails. I have attached files to emails. I have located filed/archived email messages using the search feature. I have created meeting invitations and/or calendar appointments. I have added contact records to the address book. I have forwarded email messages/attachments to additional parties. None of the above. 5 Select all software programs in which you have "strong" knowledge and capability using? Answer to this question is required Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) Presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) Spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) Publishing software (e.g., Microsoft Publisher, Adobe PageMaker) Diagramming software (e.g., Microsoft Visio) Web-based collaboration software (e.g., SharePoint) Project tracking software (e.g., Microsoft Project) None of the above 6 How have you interacted with customers? Answer to this question is required I have listened to customer needs and recommended solution without compromising quality or agency/company objectives. I have educated customers on how the services of my agency/company would effectively meet their needs. I have actively solicited and responded to customer feedback. I have reached out to customers for feedback throughout an engagement/project. I have developed and/or implemented an action plan to improve a program, process or procedure in response to customer feedback. None of the above. 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 8 Which actions have you independently performed to resolve problems at work? Answer to this question is required I detected problems through visual inspection. I researched the nature of the problem (e.g., reviewed documents, collaborated with experts). I generated possible solutions to the problem. I weighed alternate solutions to recommend a solution. I oversaw or monitored the implementation of the solution. I evaluated the effectiveness of the solution. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience providing information to customers? Answer to this question is required I have independently responded to inquiries and questions about the functions and locations of an organization. I have answered general questions related to the functions of an office and/or performed follow-up work of a routine nature with members of the general public. I have answered general questions related to the functions of an office. I have some experience, education, and/or training but less than the levels described. None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to maintain accurate, up to date records? Answer to this question is required Entered information into a database Quality checked data entries Filed back-up documents (e.g., receipts, purchase orders) Retrieved information from files Converting files (word to PDF, attaching files) None of the above 11 Please select which of the following tasks you have completed when interacting with customers: Answer to this question is required I have listened to customer needs and recommended solutions without compromising quality or agency/company objectives. I have educated customers on how the services of my agency/company would effectively meet their needs. I have actively solicited and responded to customer feedback. I have reached out to customers for feedback through an engagement/project. I have developed and/or implemented an action plan to improve a program, process or procedure in response to customer feedback. None of the above. 12 To which types of individuals have you provided customer services (e.g., answering inquiries)? Answer to this question is required High-profile individuals (e.g., members of congress, celebrities) Administrative staff Members of the general public/constituents Shop workers (e.g., electricians, masons, plumbers) Peers/co-workers None of the above 13 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Office policies/procedures Expense summaries Justifications for supply/equipment requests Supply orders Email replies to customers Memorandums None of the Above 14 Have you ever used a Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.