Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of warehouse operations and procedures.** Demonstrated ability to manage warehouse operations and procedures. In doing so: 1) ensured materials are handled according to agency and federal policies; 2) managed daily operations including receiving, storing, issuing and shipping materials; 3) monitored safety and security practices to ensure compliance with OSHA, fire, and hazardous materials; 4) identified opportunities for improved efficiency, space usage, and material flow; and 5) coordinated preventive and corrective maintenance of material handling equipment and warehouse facilities. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated the ability to manage warehouse operations and procedures. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above activities. Independently or under supervision, demonstrated the ability to manage warehouse operations and procedures. In doing so, conducted 3 (THREE) or 4 (FOUR) of the above activities. Under supervision, demonstrated the ability to manage warehouse operations and procedures. In doing so, conducted 2 (TWO) of the above activities. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to lead a team of warehouse personnel.** Demonstrated the ability to lead warehouse personnel, In doing so: 1) assigned work, resolved routine issues, and evaluated team productivity, 2) provided informal training and coaching to new staff and ensured adherence to established procedures, 3) communicated work priorities, safety standards, and operational goals to the team, and 4) identified minor disciplinary or performance issues and refers more complex matters to supervisors. Answer to this question is required Served in a team lead role overseeing warehouse personnel/direct reports. Performed ALL of the above. Served in a team lead role overseeing warehouse personnel/direct reports. Performed (3) THREE of the above tasks. Served in a team lead role overseeing warehouse personnel/direct reports. Performed (2) TWO of the above tasks. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to develop and maintain storage and distribution procedures.** Ability to develop and maintain storage and distribution procedures. Including the following : 1) reviewed inventory records, and ensured accurate reporting and documentation; 2) supported the implementation of standard procedures and learned to identify discrepancies in inventory records; 3) developed complex storage and inventory plans, anticipated problems, and implemented corrective measures; 4) conducted spot checks, cycle counts, and reconciliations to verify stock levels and maintain accuracy of automated systems; and 5) assisted in planning for emergency and contingency storage and distribution needs. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated the ability to develop and maintain storage and distribution procedures. In doing so, conducted ALL the above activities With minimum supervision, demonstrated the ability to develop and main storage and distribution procedures. In doing so, conducted 3 (THREE) or 4(FOUR) of the above activities. With minimum supervision, demonstrated the ability to develop and main storage and distribution procedures. In doing so, conducted 2 (TWO) of the above activities. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Provided clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products. These products include: 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) operational reports, 3) training materials, 4) space utilization plans, 5) standard operating procedures, and 6) supporting documentation for audits, inspections, and management reviews. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared ALL of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a warehouse facility. Independently prepared FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a warehouse facility. Independently prepared TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a warehouse facility. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. The ability to interact collaboratively with others. Explained procedures and other information in a clear and concise manner and developed and maintained relationships with a variety of stakeholders. (e.g., co-workers, subordinates, supervisors/managers, vendors, clients, or customers) to accomplish the work. Answer to this question is required Routinely collaborated with persons inside and outside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve complex and/or controversial issues. For example, effectively represented work organization in committees and task forces addressing issues/ problems where the members have conflicting objectives and worked with individuals to resolve issues/problems where guidelines and procedures are not clearly applicable. Collaborated with persons inside and outside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve issues. For example, regularly worked with the public or personnel in other agencies and/or libraries to explain procedures and resolve issues related to missing information or materials when guidelines and procedures were applicable. Collaborated with persons inside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve routine issues. For example, communicated with other sections or units to locate records or communicate workflow status. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).