Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the professional discipline(s) for which you possess qualified experience. Answer to this question is required Architect Engineer None of the above 2 BASIC REQUIREMENT FOR GENERAL ENGINEER 0801: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineer at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in 1 above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement for the General Engineer. 3 BASIC REQUIREMENT FOR ARCHITECT 0808: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Architect at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in 1 above. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect's office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. My education and/or experience as an Architect is not reflected in the above statement. In addition to meeting the educational requirements you must meet the specialized experience described below: Specialized experience&nbsp;is experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Applicants must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in (6) six of the (7) seven following: Experience must be demonstrated in resume (1) Knowledge of a wide range of engineering or architectural theories, concepts, principles, practices, techniques and methods to apply advanced concepts and principles to building designs, construction processes, and project management. (2) Performing project management and monitoring for new construction, renovations, and improvements to facilities. (3) Serving as the technical business manager of major projects, from the preliminary planning stage through the design and construction phases. (4) Knowledge of budget planning, programming, and funding processes to oversee financial control, integrated financials, and resources allocation to ensure project feasibility, manage risks, and optimize resource allocation to achieve project goals. (5) Ability to develop, revise, and interpret, engineering policies, standards, and project requirements to assist and maintain quality, safety, and efficiency in engineering and architectural projects. (6) Oversees the development of programmatic project objectives as well as providing the technical and professional leadership required for the effective execution of the project. (7) Coordinating and overseeing assigned project work elements in the project contract. &nbsp; 4 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above (must have experience in (6) six of the (7) seven experiences in the above statement) (Please note: the experience must be demonstrated in the resume)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical evaluations of contractor proposals, recommending a pre-negotiation position for contracts, and assisting with contract negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Do you have knowledge of a wide range of engineering or architectural theories, concepts, principles, practices, equipment, and techniques and methods to apply advanced practical application of engineering or architectural concepts and principles to building designs, construction processes, commissioning of building systems, and project management. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Select the statement that best reflects your experience in writing, editing, revising, implementing, managing, interpreting policies and procedures affecting building programs for a large organization. Answer to this question is required I have provided oversight into the development and implementation of policies and procedures affecting building programs for a large organization. I participated as a member of a team in the development and implementation of policies and procedures affecting building programs for a large organization. I have independently revised and analyzed existing policies and procedures affecting the federal, state and local code requirements of building programs for a large organization. I have made recommendations to others for new or revised policies and procedures affecting building programs for a large organization. I have no experience writing policies and procedures affecting building programs for a large organization. 8 Do you have experience coordinating the work of a large&nbsp;program team to accomplish assigned tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience working on a construction project that is an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Have you been directly responsible for ensuring compliance with OSHA, fire/life safety codes, emergency preparedness, or environmental regulations in facility operations? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Choose the administrative tasks that you performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for, or in collaboration with, employees. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for employees. Interview job applicants for hire. Made hiring or promotion recommendations or decisions. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for employees. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Recommended or implemented disciplinary actions. I have actively participated in the promotion of DIDR goals and requirements; and advised management and staff on issues related to diversity, equity, and inclusion requirements. None of the above. 12 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project, and perform independent government estimates Managed Quality Assurance on a project Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Writing and reviewing large scale scope of work None of the above 13 &nbsp; Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Communication issues Stakeholder management Risk management Team dynamics and conflict Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 14 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Planning Programming Budgeting Executing Developed draft budgets for oversight approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 15 Which technical documents have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Blueprints Wiring diagrams Trouble shooting sequences Fault readouts from servicing equipment Electrical codes Elevator codes Mechanical Codes and Standards None of the above 16 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have written summaries for oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports on completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products None of the above 17 Which of the following have you communicated to customers as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Updated management on the project status Provided recommendations for the readjustment of funds, schedules and tasks associated with the project Communicated with local and Federal agencies to ensure that maintenance projects are in compliance with safety and environmental regulations and standards Provided technical guidance to lower-level employees on technical matters None of the above 18 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering a project or program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External customers and/or stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership Senior Government Officials None of the above 19 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Agency design standards Citation response plans Acquisition strategies Procurement documents (e.g., plans, board selection reports) Policies Specifications None of the above 20 Do you have experience managing design, construction, or maintenance projects on a facility with multiple buildings? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 21 Do you have experience providing advisory services and making recommendations to senior level officials and/or oversight committees on facilities and program management for a large organization? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Please&nbsp;provide an example of how you resolved a difficult and complex technical, project management or organizational problem using innovative and original approaches. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 23 Please&nbsp;describe your experience formulating and executing facilities operation programs of a complex of large buildings or monumental facilities to include budget development, strategic and projects planning and execution, process improvement and organizational change. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.