Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST represents your experience with budget related work? Answer to this question is required I have not developed a project or program budget. I have developed and managed a project budget. I have developed and managed a program budget. I have developed and managed a department or division budget. I have developed and managed an organizational budget. I have developed and managed an agency budget. 2 I have performed the following project management tasks. (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Developed a comprehensive plan that included a project timeline and allocation of duties Assured accuracy of technical details by consulting with relevant experts Developed or approved project budget and/or forecast Negotiated project details with external individuals or organizations Tracked project progress Managed project staffing Served as a technical consultant and assisted in resolving technical issues Drafted and submitted progress reports Managed project's conclusion None of the above 3 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 4 Which tasks related to property construction and architecture have you performed? Answer to this question is required Managing the repair, renovation, or new construction of properties to ensure work is in accordance with established specifications Reviewing, evaluating, and approving shop drawings, samples, and material certifications submitted by contractors to ensure contract adherence Consulting with contractor personnel to resolve unforeseen problems and latent conditions developing during maintenance or replacement projects Reviewing final products for quality and adherence to established specifications None of the above 5 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 7 Which of the following staffing functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have created staff positions. I have prepared employee performance appraisals. I have interviewed and hired staff. I have terminated employees or performed other adverse actions. I have identified employees for bonuses, awards, or other incentives. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee performance appraisals. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to hiring decisions. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee terminations or adverse actions. I have reviewed, or gave input and recommendations to employee bonuses, awards or incentives. None of the above. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Facilitating the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective Interacting effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to staff Persuading and/or inspiring others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations Defusing confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed Developing trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds to achieve goals and objectives None of the above 9 Select the response that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policies and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 10 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.