Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide contract/procurement administrative program support. Provided contract/procurement administrative program support in a government organization. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) provided information, advice and guidance on administrative contracting procedures to contractors, contracting officer representatives (COR), and management; 2) monitored the administrative lifecycle of contract performance by tracking work completion, payments, modifications, and closeout activities; 3) planned and coordinated administrative activities for contracts, including long-term, comprehensive technical service contracts; 4) planned and coordinated contract administration activities from the determination of contract specifications through bid evaluations, execution, and closeout.; 5) worked closely with COR and technical points of contact to define contract requirements, and 6) analyzed costs and developed reports justifying funding needs for contract costs. Answer to this question is required As the focal point for acquisition procedures, contract/procurement management and related issues INDEPENDENTLY performed ALL of the above tasks As the focal point for acquisition procedures, contract/procurement management and related issues INDEPENDENTLY performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. As the focal point for acquisition procedures, contract/procurement management and related issues INDEPENDENTLY performed THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to serve as a contract and procurement liaison.** Demonstrated the ability to serve as a contract and procurement liaison in a government organization, including the following: 1) planned, initiated and coordinated contract activities as a COR for assigned contracts, including long-term, extensive technical service contracts; 2) oversaw and reviewed contractors' performance; 3) initiated contract modifications, and monitored financial aspects of contracts; 4) managed communications with contractors; 5) reviewed delivery schedules, travel plans, technical deliverables, Bills of Materials and financial statements; 6) investigated contractor delays, resolved performance issues, and issued notices regarding contract compliance and performance; 7) interpreted contract provisions for management and technical points of contact and provided appropriate advice and guidance; and 8) advised management on difficult contractual issues involving competing options or conflicting interests. Answer to this question is required As a contracting official, independently and regularly performed ALL of the above duties. As a contracting official, regularly performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above duties. As a contracting official, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above duties. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan, manage, and evaluate program operations.** Demonstrated the ability to plan, manage, and evaluate program operations. In doing so: 1) gathered and analyzed information to identify issues and recommend solutions that improve effectiveness and efficiency; 2) collaborated with organizational staff to develop, organize, and manage policies and programs; 3) participated in the development of new plans, schedules, or methods to accommodate changing program requirements; 4) assisted in developing, organizing, and implementing functional short-and long range plans; 5) participated in general management reviews; and 6) conducted functional inspections for compliance with policies, plans, regulations, and work planning. Answer to this question is required Independently provided program planning and management, by performing ALL of the above tasks. Co-managed a program providing program management and oversight, by performing FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Provided program management for segments of an overall program, by performing THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked well and cooperated with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, vendors, clients and/or customers) to provide positive and professional service to clients by anticipating their existing and future needs and completing the office&rsquo;s work. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary contact for evaluating customer acquisition needs, working directly with a diverse work and client community both internally and externally to determine sources for services, determining acquisition strategies, and providing timely feedback on customer needs. Regular collaboration with other divisions in an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in evaluating customer needs, under general supervision, working with a diverse work and client community internally to determine sources for services, determining acquisition strategies and providing timely feedback on customer needs. Regular collaboration with other divisions in an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in evaluating customer needs, locating services for staff and providing timely feedback to customers. Regular collaboration with co-workers to complete work. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision planned, organized and executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities, including identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. With supervision, completed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Work assignments were primarily planned by supervisors. Met deadlines and accomplished work under general supervision. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).