Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following describes your experience serving as a senior specialist on the stewardship of various types of collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a senior specialist on the stewardship of ethnographic collections. I have served as a senior specialist on the stewardship of archaeological collections. I have served as a senior specialist on the stewardship of contemporary object collections. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience serving as a senior specialist on functions related to museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a senior specialist using collections information systems such as KE EMu or TMS. I have served as a senior specialist dealing with environmental monitoring systems. I have served as a senior specialist dealing with integrated pest management. I have served as a senior specialist dealing with security for collections storage and exhibits. I have served as a senior specialist dealing with installation and de-installation of museum exhibits. I have served as a senior specialist dealing with the provision of access to and the support of researchers and other users of collections. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience being accountable for a museum's collection as a specialist in museum registration or collections management for the following functions in registration, care of collections, or conservation? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched and resolved collections care concerns. I have implemented collections policies. I have managed environmental conditions in museum storage and exhibit areas. I have planned and reviewed preservation needs for museum collections. I have implemented professional standards for the handling and storing of collections. I have assessed ethical, legal, and liability concerns for museum collections. I have prepared and reviewed facility reports for outgoing and incoming loans. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in the development of a collection&rsquo;s emergency management program? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team or committee in developing and applying collections emergency management policies, standards, and practices at a cultural heritage institution. This experience included collaborating with others in developing and implementing a collections emergency management program, including preparedness, response, and recovery policies, procedures, training, and logistical support. I have experience independently developing and implementing a collections emergency management plan, including preparedness, response, and recovery policies, procedures, and training at a cultural heritage institution. I have experience as a team member in developing and applying collections emergency management policies, standards, and practices at a cultural heritage institution. None of the above. 6 Which of the following collections documentation practices have you regularly performed in your past work? Answer to this question is required I have performed shelf surveys/inventories. I have accurately recorded information using automated systems. I have adhered to data standards for collections management. I have assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records. I have independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records. I have no experience with collection documentation practices. 7 Which of the following describes your work experience interacting with Native American or other indigenous cultures of the Western Hemisphere? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have obtained this experience through work with ethnographic collections. I have obtained this experience through work with archaeological collections. I have obtained this experience through work with contemporary art collections. None of the above. 8 In which of the following areas have you worked with Native peoples or communities and collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating and collaborating with Native peoples. I have experience providing access to collections for Native peoples. I have experience developing and facilitating partnerships with Native peoples. I have experience providing training for professional development of Native peoples. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of Native American culture and experience in working with indigenous communities on their sensitive materials or ancestral remains? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted with the development of policy and procedures in the care and handling of culturally sensitive objects. I have developed policy and procedures on Native American culturally sensitive objects. I have training or education in the care and handling of culturally sensitive objects. I have worked directly with tribal representatives to implement procedures for the care of their culturally sensitive objects in a museum’s collection. I have not performed any of these tasks. 10 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience in collaborating with multiple types of professional contacts? Answer to this question is required I have experience identifying, convening, and managing relationships with multiple professional contacts, colleagues, or stakeholders to collaborate and consult on a project or program. I have experience developing and maintaining relationships with professional contacts, colleagues, or stakeholders to collaborate and consult on a project or program. I have experience working on a project or program with multiple collaborators. I do not have experience collaborating with multiple types of professional contacts. 11 Which of the following describes your experience managing staff in collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have established and monitored work schedules. I have reviewed work operations for compliance with policy and standards. I have created performance plans. I have evaluated work performance. I have initiated appropriate personnel actions. None of the above. 12 Which statement best describes your experience supervising staff or team projects? Answer to this question is required I supervised staff by setting goals and priorities, assigning work, evaluating performance, and holding employees accountable for results. I led staff or teams by assigning work and monitoring progress but did not have full supervisory authority. I served as a team lead or project lead without responsibility for performance evaluation. I have not supervised staff. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.