Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in 3 out of 6 following: (1) 1. Apply comprehensive knowledge of commonly used budgetary methods, practices, procedures, regulations, precedents, and policies to perform budget analysis, formulation, and execution duties; (2) Prepare and Analyze Payroll. Review and interpret complex payroll data, identify and resolve discrepancies and generate detailed reports. Proficient in data analysis and reporting tools such as Excel and pivot tables; (3) Prepare written documents and reports to communicate detailed agency financial information, including availability and status of funds, expenses, and obligations; (4) Provide guidance and interpretation on financial/budget regulatory or statutory requirements, policies, and procedures; and (5)&nbsp;Maintain financial controls and monitor obligations, utilization, and commitments for a large organization. 2 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budget officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicated with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate or resolve controversial policy or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate or persuade individuals or groups, including those skeptical or in disagreement. I have participated in discussions as a program representative in order to plan, coordinate or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 3 Which statements describe your experience orally communicating with others on financial or budget-related topics? Answer to this question is required Explained financial information or budget implications Provided guidance related to financial policies or regulations Elicited needed information for financial/budget planning purposes Justified financial recommendations to influence agreement None of the above Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in 4 out of 6 following: (1) Applying comprehensive knowledge of commonly used budgetary methods, practices, procedures, regulations, precedents and policies to perform budget analysis, formulation and execution duties; (2) Providing guidance and interpretation on financial/budget regulatory or statutory requirements, policies, and procedures; (3) Maintaining financial controls and monitoring of obligations, utilization and commitments for a large organization; (4) Preparing written documents and reports to communicate detailed agency financial information, including availability and status of funds, expenses and obligations; (5) Independently developing budget estimates and/or justifications for program support activities; and (6) Making sound recommendations to senior leadership to ensure informed programmatic and business decisions can be made. 2 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budget officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicated with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate or resolve controversial policy or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate or persuade individuals or groups, including those skeptical or in disagreement. I have participated in discussions as a program representative in order to plan, coordinate or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 3 Select the response(s) that describe your experience performing budget execution functions. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience tracking obligations. I have experience preparing financial analyses to project obligation requirements. I have experience assisting managers with developing, formulating, and presenting budget submissions. I have experience reviewing and editing budget requests to ensure conformity and correctness. I have experience evaluating the cost and benefit of proposed and existing programs. I have experience advising and assisting program managers in developing budget requests and documentation. I have experience compiling narrative and statistical budget materials. I have no experience in this area. 4 Which statements describe your experience orally communicating with others on financial or budget-related topics? Answer to this question is required Explained financial information or budget implications Provided guidance related to financial policies or regulations Elicited needed information for financial/budget planning purposes Justified financial recommendations to influence agreement None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Select the statement that best describes your experience executing, monitoring, and controlling budgets. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have received education or training in budget execution and internal control methods but have not performed this function on the job. I have performed support work and assisted with analyses related to executing, monitoring, and controlling budgets, but I have not been responsible for monitoring, controlling or initiating adjustments to the overall budget of an organization. I have monitored, controlled and recommended adjustments to operating budgets for programs or organizations with essentially one source of funding, e.g., appropriated funds, fees for products or services, or similar non-appropriated fund sources. I have monitored, controlled and recommended adjustments to operating budgets for programs or organizations whose fund sources and control processes were mixed and complex, i.e., having several of the following conditions: appropriated funds, revolving funds, trust funds, fees for services, working capital funds, non-appropriated and/or grant funds, fund sources governed by different fiscal years, accounting systems, reporting and control systems. 2 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience in performing budget work in one or more phases of the budget process. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Provided analytical services to support the formulation, justification, presentation, and execution stages of the budget process for a substantial segment of the organization's budget. Analyzed a wide range of past and present financial data. Reviewed requests for funding and proposed staffing levels in relation to current obligations and expenditures. Assessed the impact of budget changes and spending on salaries, contracts, travel, benefits, and related expenses of the organization's budget. None of the above 3 Select the tasks that are consistent with your experience in performing budgetary and/or financial analysis. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identify problem areas and recommend resolutions. Prepare apportionments and allotments for assigned accounts. Maintain record of commitment, obligation, and expenditure balances. Prepare justifications for budget submission ensuring budgeted formulation data is accurate. Review, record, and process funding agreements for interagency cost recoverable (reimbursable) agreements. Monitor assigned programs continually to anticipate additional programmatic and budgetary requirements. None of the above 4 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education verifying the accuracy and adequacy of budget request data submitted by appropriation managers in support of budget estimates or requests for reallocation of line items. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in utilizing budget database systems. Answer to this question is required Used a variety of software applications and programs associated with financial management. Used these applications and programs on a continuing basis to prepare complex financial reports and to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. Used a financial system on a daily basis. Used basic software applications and programs associated with financial management. Used these applications to prepare financial and expenditure reports. Used basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. Entered and reviewed MAX A-11 Data Entry or similar systems used to collect budget and financial data. Entered and reviewed MAX A-11 Text (Appropriations and Narrative) or similar systems used to collect budget and financial data. Entered and reviewed applicable Budget Data Requests (BDR). None of the above 6 Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying analytical methods and techniques to identify and resolve financial issues related to programs. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature and independently developed or recommended the most suitable program or system for modification. I have directed an organizational unit that analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature, and directed the development or recommendation of the most suitable program or system plan for modification. I have established methodologies and directed the analysis of significant and controversial financial data from a complex array of multi-source funds in order to formulate budget/financial information for an agency's multi-year substantive programs. None of the above 7 Choose the response(s) that represent your experience using budget data to identify and assist in the resolution of problems. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Data Reporting Data Collection Establishing a baseline for programs and projects Variance Analysis Determine out-year or lifecycle costs of programs and projects Interpretation Application Tracking Quality Assurance None of the above 8 Do you have experience providing budget guidance to managers in writing (e.g., procurement dates and deadlines, allowances under policy)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the document(s) you have developed as a regular part of your job. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Program request Budget request Guidelines or procedural instructions for Agency programs, procedures, or regulations Agency policy statements Reports, memorandums, correspondence, etc. for the signature of key Agency officials Internal Agency communications Hearing transcripts Questions for the Record None of the above 10 Choose the statement(s) that represent your experience managing and monitoring a budget for an agency. Answer to this question is required I have obligated funds. I have tracked expenditures. I have created a budget estimate. I have analyzed expenditure trends. I have distributed budget allocations. I have reviewed past cost expenditures. I have reprogrammed funds across organizational or agency programs. I have conducted a current budget needs assessment. I have reconciled commitments, obligations, and expenditures. I have monitored funding expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness. I have created and explained alternate working budget scenarios to senior agency management. None of the above 11 Select the tasks that are consistent with your experience in performing budgetary and/or financial analysis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identify problem areas and recommend resolutions. Prepare allotments for assigned accounts. Maintain records of apportionment and/or obligation balances. Prepare justifications for budge submission ensuring budgeted formulation data is accurate. Review, record, and process funding agreements for interagency cost recoverable agreements. Monitor assigned programs continually to anticipate additional budgetary requirements. None of the above 12 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience performing routine budgetary analysis as a regular and recurring part of your job. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed budget data and analyses for senior Agency officials. I have reviewed program funding requests and recommended funding levels to senior Agency officials. I have reviewed and monitored financial management information reports to control obligations against available resources, and reviewed reprogramming actions. I have reviewed budget justifications submitted to ensure that the information presented is accurate, followed budgetary guidance, and ensured consistency with Agency policy. I have evaluated programs funded under assigned budgetary accounts and anticipated budget-related issues for those programs that will require the involvement of senior Agency officials. None of the above 13 Do you have experience analyzing financial trends and future project/program requirements to develop budget estimates? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Do&nbsp;you have experience formulating and executing budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the statement(s) that describe the budget activities you have performed as a regular part of your job. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Determined the costs and benefits of operations Responded to budget inquiries Resolved budgetary/financial issues Monitored and tracked obligations and expenditures for assigned programs and projects Prepared monthly/quarterly financial reports Recommended budget plans to reviewing and approving authorities Assisted in budget execution Assisted in budget formulation Resolved budget execution issues Resolved budget formulation issues Budget execution Budget formulation for multi-year programs Budget formulation and execution for multiple projects in one year None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.