Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 2 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 3 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses / assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences / symposia Interviews Press / public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet Georeferenced data None of the above 4 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.