Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 4 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 5 Choose all of the statements that describe the position classification duties you have performed: Answer to this question is required I have conducted position classification and position management reviews within assigned area to evaluate classification accuracy and consistency. I have developed organizational charts and reorganization / realignment packages for appropriate office / divison / branch. I have provided organizational and position information to appeal adjudications and serve as an agency liaison on appeals or positions. I have evaluated drafts of OPM Classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. I have evaluated drafts of non-federal classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. None of the above. 6 Select the types of positions for which you have made classification determinations. (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Wage Grade positions General Schedule or equivalent level positions Supervisory positions Excepted Service positions to include Schedule C Senior Executive Service positions None of the above 7 From the following list check all that apply regarding the extent of your classification experience. Answer to this question is required Analyze and interpret work functions and employee utilization to provide guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs or realignment of function. Perform comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices and/or the agency. Address position classification issues of unusual complexity such as impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions. Provide management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy. Resolve difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues. Develop clear, concise classification evaluation reports. Write responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues. Persuade management, supervisors, employees and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products. Prepare and process formal classification appeals packages. Develop Federal-wide or agency specific position classification standards None of the above. 8 I have interpreted and applied the regulations and guidance contained in the following on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Handbook (DEOH) Qualifications Standards Handbook Federal Travel Regulations The Personnel Data Standards Handbook The United States Code (USC) The Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards Classifier's Handbook None of the above 9 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.