Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 This position has an education requirement. Choose the one statement that best describes your education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required Completion of at least 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree. A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided a knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. I do NOT meet either of the requirements as described above 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following describes your experience &nbsp;reviewing and managing licenses, overseeing electronic and print subscriptions, working with vendors&mdash;including conducting contract negotiations and managing contracts&mdash;and administering or maintaining an Electronic Resource Management (ERM) system. (Click all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing an ERM system. I have experience managing an ERM system. I have experience using XML data formats for library, archive, museum, or metadata collection systems. I have experience with other data standards supporting library, archive, museum, or metadata collections systems. I have experience with data standards supporting non-library, non-archive, non-museum/metadata collections systems. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience related to standards, trends, and issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created MARC records in OCLC and in local systems such as an Integrated Library System. I am familiar with standards such as OpenURLs and APIs for managing access of online serials. I have cataloged and managed electronic serials using third party vendors. I am familiar with vendor-supplied discovery services that provide unified searching for library content. I have experience with Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) for ordering library materials. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experiences with managing library print serial subscriptions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated with subscription vendors on payment, claiming, and receipt issues. I have worked with subscription vendors to resolve complex payment, claiming, and receipt issues. I have trained and helped staff resolve payment, claiming, and receipt issues. I have created and maintained procedural documents and policies on serials management for colleagues and/or staff. I have participated in large-scale subscription cancellations and/or changes. I have assisted with evaluating and/or choosing subscription vendors for my library. I have created and distributed subscription reports for library administrators. I have trained staff to create and distribute subscription reports for library staff and/or institutional colleagues. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 6 Which of the following tasks have you performed for managing electronic journal subscriptions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created and distributed ejournal subscription lists. I have created and distributed journal subscription lists that merge print and electronic subscription data. I have verified vendor subscription lists with payment and access information. I have compiled, analyzed, and presented historical ejournal use and price data. I have edited and updated electronic access information in an A-Z ejournal list. I have updated library catalog records to indicate online availability and subscription availability. I have researched and suggested new methods, tools, and/or policies for managing ejournals. I have implemented and trained staff on new methods, tools, and/or policies for managing ejournals. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your experience managing digital assets or data across their lifecycle? Answer to this question is required I follow established procedures for specific tasks such as metadata entry, file handling, or quality checks. I have created and distributed journal subscription lists that merge print and electronic subscription data. I follow established procedures for specific tasks such as metadata entry, file handling, or quality checks. I design, manage, and improve end-to-end digital asset lifecycle efforts, including workflows and standards. 8 Which of the following best represents your level of experience following instructions required to process library materials in collections management? Answer to this question is required I have searched bibliographic utilities such as OCLC to locate matching bibliographic records for monographs. I have performed copy-cataloging I have searched bibliographies utilities such as OCLC to locate authority records. I have edited recorded serials holdings information using an integrated online catalog system. I have performed original cataloging. I have searched bibliographic utilities such as OCLC to locate matching bibliographic records for serials. I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have not conducted any of the above activities. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience using integrated library systems (e.g., SIRSI/Dynix, Horizon, Voyager, Aleph, Innovative), web-based tools, and other office automation applications to acquire and/or catalog library materials? Answer to this question is required I have not had training, education or experience using integrated library systems, web-based tools, and other office applications to acquire and/or catalog library materials. I have used automated systems to create and/or update bibliographic and/or acquisitions records. I have used standard office automation software applications (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support acquisitions work. I have used advanced features and capabilities of an integrated library system's acquisitions and cataloguing modules, bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC, BIP+), web-based search engines and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support acquisitions and cataloging work. I have used basic features and capabilities of an integrated library system's acquisitions and cataloguing modules, bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC, RLIN, BIP+), web-based search engines and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support acquisitions and cataloging work. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience collaborating with others or working on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. I have had education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating products and services related to electronic resources management? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training using products and services related to electronic resources management. I have had experience using products and services related to electronic resources management. I have been responsible for recommending products and services related to electronic resources management. I have been responsible for selecting products and services related to electronic resource management. I have been responsible for implementing and training staff with products and services related to electronic resource management. None of the above. 12 Which of the following describes your experiences related to technologies, best practices, and standards for providing access to electronic journals and resources? Answer to this question is required I have introduced new technologies, standards and practices for electronic resource management. I have improved efficiency and workflows in electronic journal processing by implementing a new practice or technology. I keep up to date with best practices and developments in electronic resource processing. I have attended workshops, webinars, conferences, etc., to learn about new practices and tools for providing access to electronic journals and resources. I have worked on a team to evaluate and/or implement a new technology or tool to manage electronic resources. I have performed research and/or presented a conference session on a new best practice from my institution. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your experiences with managing a discovery service? Answer to this question is required I have led a team that has implemented a discovery service, such as EBSCO Discovery Service, Primo, Summon, etc. I have been on a team that has implemented a discovery service. I have led a team that maintains a discovery service. I have used a discovery service. I have no experience with discovery service. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in collecting and analyzing statistical data and reporting out using software such as Excel, Access, and other systems? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in using these types of computer-based tools to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have experience using these computer-based tools but am not able to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have limited experience using these computer-based tools. I have never used any data collection and analyzing computer-based tools. None of the above. 15 From the list below, select the areas in which you have applied first-hand experience. (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Budget guidance development Integrated monthly/quarterly financial reports Program financial performance reviews Budget-planning preparation Budget trend analyses Impacts from alternative level of funding Program performance progress report Response to budget inquiries Provide budget advice to program offices Review budget and program data to determine additional funding needs or need to reprogram funds Perform or participate in budget execution activities None of the above 16 Which of the following do you have experience planning, developing, managing, and overseeing budgets and financial operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience with the coordination and preparation of an annual budget and supporting data. I have experience with budget formulation and execution. I have experience coordinating and managing funds. I have experience developing and implementing processes to monitor and maintain budget status. None of the above 17 Which of the following best describes your administrative experience as a supervisor? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues. I have no experience in supervising staff relating to daily work assignments and administrative issues I have experience in serving as a supervisor, assisting in daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. I have experience as a supervisor and manager. This includes managing and coordinating schedules, daily work assignments and resolving administrative issues. 18 Which of the following best describes your experience developing performance standards and conducting employee evaluations? Answer to this question is required I have experience in designing and developing employee performance standards, but no experience conducting employee evaluations. I have experience as a supervisor conducting employee evaluations and developing performance standards. I have no experience developing performance standards and completing employee evaluations. I have assisted in reviewing employee performance standards only. 19 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully (in projects) led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.