Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Please choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for this position. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education Answer to this question is required I have a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of education and experience consisting of courses equivalent to a major, as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Do you have demonstrated leadership and diplomatic skills to serve as the director responsible for handling complex enquiries from a wide range of sources? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes the organization where you have gained the most significant and relevant operational and logistical experience (including facilities, security, guest services, and/or retail oversight)? Answer to this question is required A major Zoological Institution, Wildlife Park, or Aquarium where I held a management or executive oversight role. A conservation, scientific, or research organization where I managed complex, multi-site operational logistics. A large museum, botanical Garden, or major cultural/public attraction that included animal care or significant public engagement operations. A large-scale organization (e.g., government agency, university, complex commercial entity) requiring coordination across multiple, highly regulated departments. A commercial (e.g., hospitality, retail, wholesale) or public entity requiring general large-scale operational or logistical management. None of the above. 5 In what ways have you demonstrated your skill in written communication on behalf of a director or high-level official? (Check All that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written reports for a director or high-level official. I have written proposals on behalf of a director or high-level official. I have written correspondence, memoranda for a director or high-level official. I have created presentations for, and on behalf of director or high-level official. I have written talking points or speeches for a director or high-level official. None of the above. 6 Which statement best describes your experience developing, integrating, and overseeing a long-range Animal Collection Plan, including the application of genetics and population-management principles for conservation? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have contributed to the development and maintenance of an animal collection plan as a regular part of my job, with my work typically being reviewed by a senior employee. I have independently developed and maintained key components of a long-range animal collection plan and/or managed associated genetics and population management initiatives with minimal supervision. I have led the development and integration of a long-range animal collection plan, applied population management principles, and trained/consulted others as an expert in this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating the efforts and expectations of management to develop content that reflects the goals of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have worked with multiple contributors in an organization to create accurate and appropriate text and visual content for presentation to a wide audience. I have consulted and reconciled multiple points of view to develop accurate and engaging text and visual content for presentation to a wide audience. I have written and edited text for presentation to the public that meets high standards of accuracy and clarity, and is effective at reaching its intended audience. I do not have experience coordinating the efforts and expectations of contributors to develop content that reflects the goals and values of an organization. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting animal facts and scientific data for the public? Answer to this question is required I have served as an official representative for my institution (e.g., in national/international forums like AZA, WAZA, IUCN, CBSG) or I have presented key operational/factual insights to high-level stakeholders (e.g., Congressional stakeholders or potential donors). I have independently and routinely served as an official spokesperson for my organization to major media outlets (social and broadcast) and the general public, communicating complex scientific, welfare, and operational facts. I have routinely created or contributed high-level animal-related information and scientific data for official publications (e.g., trade/scientific journals, annual reports) and internal senior management. I have experience communicating animal information and scientific data to a variety of internal audiences, including zoo visitors and the general public, as a primary duty. None of the above. 9 Which of the follow ing best describes your experience coordinating complex scientific initiatives, aligning research with living animal collections, and/or representing an organization in major conservation forums? Answer to this question is required I have independently coordinated and aligned scientific activities with living collection needs and have served as an official institutional representative in major national/international conservation forums (e.g., AZA, WAZA, IUCN, CBSG). I have routinely coordinated scientific efforts and research initiatives with the needs of a living collection and have established or maintained key partnerships with external scientific or conservation organizations. I have contributed to aligning research initiatives with living collections and have provided official representation for my organization in professional trade groups or local forums. I have minimal experience coordinating scientific initiatives or representing my organization in external conservation forums. I do not have experience aligning research with living animal collections or representing an organization in external conservation forums. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience participating in and representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences? Answer to this question is required I have represented an organization at briefings, meetings or conferences which included CEOs, Senior Level managers, State executive/legislative members or Members of Congress. I have also trained others in this task or have been consulted as an expert for this task. I have participated in and represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have participated in and represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in participating in and representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience providing technical and administrative supervision to specialized professional staff (e.g., veterinary, curatorial, scientific, pathology, or facilities). Answer to this question is required I have provided both technical and administrative supervision to professional teams (e.g., veterinary, curatorial, scientific) across multiple distinct sites or major divisions in a zoological, conservation, or major scientific institution. I have provided both technical and administrative supervision to a professional team (e.g., veterinary, curatorial, scientific) within a single department or site in a zoological, conservation, or major scientific institution. I have provided administrative supervision (e.g., performance evaluation, disciplinary actions, hiring) for a large team of specialized staff (e.g., animal care, curatorial, or scientific) in a relevant institutional setting. I have experience supervising a team (e.g., general animal care, guest services, retail) in a zoo or park setting, but my role did not include technical or administrative oversight of professional specialties. I have not held a role providing technical or administrative supervision to a specialized professional staff in a zoological or relevant conservation/scientific setting. 12 In a zoological, conservation, or major scientific institution, which of the following supervisory duties have you performed for specialized professional staff (e.g., veterinary, curatorial, pathology, or scientific)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Providing technical and administrative supervision to professional staff (e.g., veterinary, curatorial, etc.). Recommending promotions, or reassignments for professional staff. Handling employee relations, including resolving grievances or approving serious disciplinary measures. Planning work, setting priorities, and establishing timeframes and milestones for the completion of work. Evaluating work performance of specialized staff or subordinate supervisors and ensuring equity in work assignments. Identifying developmental and training needs and arranging appropriate staff development opportunities. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your ability to present and defend annual budget justifications before higher-level officials within and outside the organization? Answer to this question is required I have presented and defended annual budget justifications before higher-level officials within and outside the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in presenting and defending annual budget justifications before higher-level officials within and outside the organization. I have presented and defended annual budget justifications before higher-level officials within and outside the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in presenting and defending annual budget justifications before higher level officials within and outside the organization but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented and defended annual budget justifications before higher level officials within and outside the organization as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Describe your knowledge and experience of budge functions, (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience in budget allocation. I have experience with the Federal budget request process and timeliness. I have experience in Budget-planning and preparation. I have performed or participated in budget execution activities. I have experience responding to budget inquiries as the subject matter expert. 15 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in leading the development and execution of strategic and long-term plans for a major institution or organization? Answer to this question is required I have independently led the development and implementation of institution-wide long-range strategic and science plans and routinely advised senior leadership on policy formulation for key programs. I have collaborated with senior department heads to translate strategic plans into actionable programs and projects and was responsible for monitoring the progress and effectiveness of their execution. I have contributed to the development of short- and long-term strategic plans and provided strategic advice to a director or senior management team on program goals and objectives. I have participated in meetings related to policy development and strategic planning, but my role was generally focused on providing input for my specific department or area of work. I have not had experience contributing to or leading the development of strategic plans or advising senior management on policy. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing programs, operations, policies and procedures to evaluate effectiveness and make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing programs, operations, policies and procedures and using the information to make decisions as part of a leadership team. I have experience analyzing programs, operations, policies and procedures and evaluating their effectiveness to identify and prioritize new and revised policies. I have experience implementing policies and procedures and developing systems for tracking their success and effectiveness. I have experience ensuring effective implementation of policies and procedures. I have experience assisting operating managers in implementing actions designed to improve operations or resources. None of the above. 17 Which of the following describes your experience leading, motivating, and training staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assigned work to staff for the completion of an assignment or project. I have evaluated the training needs of staff for growth and development. I have evaluated the training needs of staff for growth and development. I have interviewed and hired staff to fill vacant positions. I have provided on-the-job training. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.