Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Do you have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position?&nbsp; This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you currently have a valid state driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in leadership concepts and principles? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not done any of the above tasks. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and I have led a workforce of highly skilled technicians as a major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled technicians on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled technicians as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 4 Which of the following AC maintenance servicing do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required Recharging air systems AC Compressor AC Condenser AC Refrigerant AC Clutch AC Generator AC Charging machine Cabin air filter None of the above 5 Which of the following statement best describes your knowledge with PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks &amp; Services? Answer to this question is required I have used my knowledge of PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks & Services as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks & Services. I have had education or training in PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks & Services, but have not yet used my knowledge to perform a task on the job. I have used my knowledge in PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks & Services on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used my knowledge in PMCS Preventive Maintenance Checks & Services to perform tasks as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task 6 Do you have experience analyzing complex engineering proposals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you reviewed proposed sequences of operation and suggested improvements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you created statements of work base complex engineering proposals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience studying schematic drawings and specifications to identify potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of parts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following statements best describes your level of involvement in maintenance/project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended maintenance/project meeting to receive instructions. I have participated in maintenance/project meetings by offering input. I have assisted in the coordination and management of maintenance/project meetings. I have coordinated and led maintenance/project meetings. I do not have experience with maintenance/project meetings. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing calendars and suspense dates to provide support services? Answer to this question is required I have experience working on individual projects and assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My assignments are generally completed with assigned suspense dates. I manage calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and to also meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In addition to managing calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period I negotiate suspense date, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf, as well as of my work group. I do not have experience managing calendars and working on assignments with suspense dates. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience in the analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training performing analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment. I have had education or training in the analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment, but has not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience performing analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment experience on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience performing analysis and troubleshooting of programs used in the control of mechanical equipment as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following statement best describes your experience preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance in Fleetwave or similar vehicle Fleet system? Answer to this question is required I have experience working and preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance records in Fleetwave or similar vehicle fleet systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance records in Fleetwave or similar vehicle fleet systems. I have had education or training with and preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance records in Fleetwave or similar vehicle fleet systems but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience working with and preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance records in Fleetwave or similar vehicle fleet systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience working and preparing reports on production equipment, and maintenance records in Fleetwave or similar vehicle fleet systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task 14 Which of the following statement reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 15 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using?&nbsp; &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Vehicle Fleet Systems None of the above 16 Do you have experience managing analytical projects to identify patterns and trends using Automotive Systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following statements best describes your level of involvement in which items are interchangeable and recommends appropriate substitutes? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the coordination and management of maintenance/project meetings and the negotiated with vendors. I have participated in maintenance/project meetings by offering input on negotiated with vendors. I do not have experience with maintenance/project meeting nor have negotiated with vendors. I have attended maintenance/project meeting to receive instructions about the negotiated with vendors. I have coordinated and led maintenance/project meetings and have negotiated with vendors. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.