Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience analyzing and/or reviewing requested material to determine whether information must be withheld under the Freedom of Information act and Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following choices best describes your understanding of the Privacy Act of 1974? Answer to this question is required I am not familiar with the requirements of the Privacy Act I understand some of the issues associated with the Privacy Act I am very familiar with the Privacy Act, but have not had to develop requirements related to the Act I have developed and/or managed privacy considerations for projects on which I have worked I have supervised efforts in which privacy considerations were implemented as a requirement 6 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 7 Which of the following regulations/access laws have you utilized in determining whether information should be disclosed or withheld? Answer to this question is required Freedom of Information Act (5 USC 552) Privacy Act (5 USC 552a) Sunshine Act (5 USC 552b) E.O. 13526 (Classified National Security Information) None of the above. 8 Please choose those answers that best describe your experience working on a team or as a team leader. Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a multi-disciplinary team on projects or studies. I have experience as a team leader responsible for planning, organizing, and coordinating work tasks. I have experience as a team leader responsible for setting work priorities and defining critical work paths. I have experience as a team leader responsible for monitoring performance and implementation to meet goals and objectives related to the organization's mission. I have experience as a team member with some responsibility for planning performance and implementation of projects and studies to meet goals and objectives related to the organization?s mission. I have experience working on a team that independently handled problems involving accounting requirements where there are no existing guidelines. I have experience working on a team and handling problems involving accounting requirements where there are established guidelines. I have completed course work or formal training on team leadership or teamwork. None of the above 9 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 11 Which of the following BEST reflects your training and/or experience in applying project management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in applying project management techniques. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing project goals, analyzing project strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a project, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the project. I have no formal education / training in this area, but I have work experience in applying project management techniques. None of the above. 12 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 13 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience establishing and maintaining liaison with other offices and agencies regarding matters of overlapping responsibility relating to a FOIA program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 15 Select the response that best describes your experience in analyzing data for trends and notable changes and reporting on these findings to senior employees: Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following BEST describes the experience you have in providing legal advice concerning the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 17 Which of the following BEST describes your experience providing guidance on the release of information from passport files requested under the provisions of the Freedom of Information or Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 18 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. I am very familiar with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), but have limited experience in FOIA case management. I have experience with Freedom of Information (FOIA) case management at the office level. I have experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management at the agency level. I have supervised efforts in an area of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. 19 Do you have experience developing and implementing an organization`s policies and procedures for use by employees or managers? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 20 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 21 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with safeguarding sensitive information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, usually with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.