Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 5 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have one full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7. I meet the superior academic achievement provision described in the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describe your experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have retail experience providing customer service while meeting the needs of visitors. I have experience in a cultural or educational institution interacting with visitors meeting their needs. I have experience in a cultural or educational institution interacting with visitors and volunteers or interns, meeting their needs in a fast paced high volume environment. I have experience providing customer service that is not described in the above options. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience with daily visitor services floor operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing strategies to address crowd control and line management. I have experience directly assisting visitors during their museum visits. I have taken training on crowd control and line management. I have experience assisting with interpretive programs such as tours, lectures, films, and public performances. I have experience working with large groups visits (ex – schools, camps, tour companies, etc.) I have experience presenting interpretive programs such as tours, lectures, demonstrations, hands-on activities, or performances. I have experience maintaining operations of a site (ex., restocking, cleaning duties, operational integrity of exhibits, etc.). None of the above. 4 Which&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;following&nbsp;best&nbsp;describes&nbsp;your&nbsp;knowledge&nbsp;of&nbsp;crowd&nbsp;management&nbsp;and&nbsp;emergency procedures? Answer to this question is required I have completed coursework or training in crowd management and emergency procedures. I have experience in crowd management and emergency procedures. I have experience in crowd management and emergency procedures in a high-volume museum, cultural or educational setting. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience working with volunteers? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in planning volunteer activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have had education or training in planning volunteer activities for a museum or comparable educational institution but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in carrying out volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have helped plan and implement volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution as a regular part of the job independently, and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with volunteer program administration? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have recruited volunteers from diverse backgrounds using multiple methods. I have assisted in recruiting volunteers from diverse backgrounds using multiple methods. I have interviewed and selected volunteers. I have assisted in interviewing and selecting volunteers. I have identified the number of volunteers required for specific tasks and assignments and created master schedules. I have assisted in assigning volunteers to specific tasks and assignments and creating master schedules. I have scheduled volunteers for their assignments. I have assisted in scheduling volunteers for their assignments. I have developed policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have assisted in developing policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have planned and implemented training or enrichment sessions for volunteers. I have assisted in planning and implementing training or enrichment sessions for volunteers. None of the above. 7 Which of the following applications or systems have you used for visitor services or volunteer program management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Volunteer Management systems (such as VSys) Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) systems Crowd Management systems (such as SenSource) Ticketing systems Other tracking and reporting systems used in visitor services or volunteer programs I have not used any applications or systems used in visitor services or volunteer program management. 8 Which of the following indicates the work experience you have had with daily floor operations in a museum, cultural institution or similar institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Readjusting and maintaining adequate staffing levels. Meeting/Greeting visitors. Monitoring and reporting any needed building repairs. Daily maintenance and upkeep of the information desk. I do not have experience with floor operations. Managing large crowds. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience related to responding to visitor comments and questions in writing? Answer to this question is required I have independently responded in writing to visitor comments and questions about exhibitions, programs, policies, and procedures in a museum or similar cultural institution. I have assisted in drafting written responses to visitor comments and questions about exhibitions, programs, policies, and procedures in a museum or similar cultural institution. I do not have experience responding in writing to visitor comments and questions. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience responding to visitor comments in person or by phone? Answer to this question is required I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, handling matters not requiring technical knowledge and referring more technical calls to the appropriate staff members. I have used customer service skills when dealing with difficult individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems and taken corrective action. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following describe your experience with visitor services or volunteer training? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have trained staff or volunteers in basic visitor services processes or procedures. I have developed or assisted in developing training to enhance engagement with public facing staff and volunteers. I have provided enrichment activities for visitor services staff or volunteers. I have evaluated visitor services training to ensure it meets program goals and objectives. I have monitored training progress and maintained training records. I have education or training in visitor services processes, procedures, and best practices and used the training as a regular part of my duties. None of the above. Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following describe your experience with daily visitor services floor operations and programs? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have developed or assisted in developing policies and procedures as part of a visitor services team at a museum or similar organization. I have implemented policies and procedures as part of a visitor services team at a museum or similar organization. I have developed or assisted in developing strategies to address crowd control and line management. I have implemented strategies to address crowd control and line management. I have managed the operations of an information desk. I have assisted with managing the operations of an information desk. I have developed or assisted in developing procedures and policies to serve visitors with disabilities. I have experience providing services to visitors with disabilities. I have developed or assisted in developing interpretive programs at a museum such as tours, lectures, demonstrations, hands-on activities, or performances. I have presented interpretive programs at a museum such as tours, lectures, demonstrations, hands-on activities, or performances. I have assisted in presenting interpretive programs at a museum such as tours, lectures, demonstrations, hands-on activities, or performances. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your work experience managing visits or tours for a &nbsp; cultural organization &nbsp; with a variety of constituencies. (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have managed visits or tours with researchers and academics. I have managed visits or tours with school, camp and tour groups. I have managed visits or tours with museum professionals. I have managed visits or tours with VIPs or donors. I have managed visits or tours with the general public. None of the above. 4 Select the answer that best describes your ability to retain composure under stressful situations when dealing with a variety of people. Answer to this question is required My previous positions have not required me to deal with a variety of people in stressful situations I have had limited experience in handling people in stressful situations. When it was required my supervisor or senior staff member was there to provide assistance I have served in a position where I had to maintain composure in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people. I was usually able to do this without the intervention of my supervisor I have served in a position where I must often maintain composure in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people and am able to do this without the intervention of my supervisor or senior staff 5 Which of the following describes your experience with volunteer program administration? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified the number of volunteers required for specific tasks and assignments and created master schedules. I have assigned volunteers to specific roles. I have scheduled volunteers for their assignments. I have jointly developed policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have experience scheduling tours or programs for special groups. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 From the list below, select the example(s) that describes your experience leading, motivating and/or training volunteer of an organization on regular basis. Answer to this question is required I have assigned work of the volunteers. I have evaluated the training needs of volunteers. I have provided on-the-job training. I have coached and or mentored volunteers or employees. I have recruited for new volunteers. I have interviewed and hired new volunteers. I have developed and /or facilitated training class for volunteers. I have worked with programs, initiatives to retain and develop current volunteers. I have no experience working with volunteers. 7 Which of the following applications or systems have you used for visitor services or volunteer program management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Volunteer Management systems (such as VSys) Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) systems Crowd Management systems (such as SenSource) Ticketing systems Other tracking and reporting systems used in visitor services or volunteer programs I have not used any applications or systems used in visitor services or volunteer program management. 8 I have performed the following leadership functions successfully in projects that I have led or was assigned senior staff responsibility. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines and expectations Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience related to responding to visitor comments and questions in writing? Answer to this question is required I have independently responded in writing to visitor comments and questions about exhibitions, programs, policies, and procedures in a museum or similar cultural institution. I have assisted in drafting written responses to visitor comments and questions about exhibitions, programs, policies, and procedures in a museum or similar cultural institution. I do not have experience responding in writing to visitor comments and questions. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience responding to visitor comments in person or by phone? Answer to this question is required I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, handling matters not requiring technical knowledge and referring more technical calls to the appropriate staff members. I have used customer service skills when dealing with difficult individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems and taken corrective action. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following best reflects your experience in training and developing staff, volunteers, and interns? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have assisted with training and/or workshops. I have developed training modules, schedules, and/or workshops. I have developed policy and procedures for staff. I have implemented policies and procedures for staff. I have assisted with preparing training and/or workshops on a multitude of topics that include American History content, interpretive techniques, and best practices in delivering visitor services. I have developed and conducted training and/or workshops on a multitude of topics that include American History content, interpretive techniques, and best practices in delivering visitor services Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.