Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Select the response that most accurately describes your level of knowledge in basic fact finding and investigative techniques: Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of or experience in this subject area. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence in problem solving efforts. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to general guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence to solve problems or to develop new techniques, methods or procedures. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings in complex situations requiring deviation from standard protocols, and that required the development of alternative approaches. In addition, I have independently evaluated programs, policies or procedures and made recommendations for improvement. 3 Identify the analytical and problem solving activities you have performed in an academic or professional setting: Answer to this question is required Collecting information from a variety of sources. Evaluating the similarities and disparities in data. Providing information to others on trends, patterns, or anomalies. Determining the authenticity, validity and veracity of sources. Developing new ways to gather and evaluate information. Developing and evaluating alternative solutions to problems. Analyzing alternative solutions to determine the potential consequences, advantages and disadvantages of each. None of the above. 4 Analysis and problem solving skills are important in investigative and compliance activities. Which of the following most accurately describes the level of skill at which you have most consistently performed? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and understanding of analysis and problem solving techniques and methods, but have not applied them on the job. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to identify, extract, or associate information. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to assimilate, consolidate, construct, create, design, identify trends, make predictions, or reconcile divergent pieces of information. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to judge, select, decide, justify, build a case for, assess, rate, or evaluate objects or pieces of information. None of the above. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 6 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with correspondence. Answer to this question is required Type in final from draft, ensuring documents are grammatically correct and correspondence is complete. Draft responses to routine requests for information. Review all outgoing correspondence for clarity, grammar, spelling, and conformance with policy and procedures. Draft responses to routine or administrative inquiries. Review final correspondence prepared by others to ensure conformance with policy and procedures. Write non-routine communications or reports that are disseminated outside assigned work area. Create form letters to handle recurring inquiries on same subject. Edit correspondence prepared for supervisor's signature to clarify language or correct grammatical errors. Communicate in writing to all levels of an organization on non-routine matters. Ensure final correspondence has all necessary clearances, is signed, all attachments and enclosures are included and package is forwarded. Instruct subordinate offices on correspondence policy and procedures. Review correspondence ensuring documents are grammatically correct, complete, and conforms with standards and procedures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.