Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Applicants MUST meet one of the below listed basic qualification requirements for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. 1. I have a degree from an accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing. 2. I have a degree from an accredited college or university in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting and/or auditing. (The 24 semester hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) 3. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, OR an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 4. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 5. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor obtained through a written examination. 6. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, (e.g., 15 semester hours) but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement described in Choice 2 above, AND (a) I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, (e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining); AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in Choice 1 above; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 7. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 8. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor obtained through a written examination. 9. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, (e.g., 15 semester hours) but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement described in Choice 2 above, AND (a) I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, (e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining); AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in Choice 1 above; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 1 Choose one answer from the choices ABOVE that describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I meet the basic qualification requirement described in 1 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 2 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 3 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 4 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 5 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 6 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 7 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 8 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 9 above. My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. Note: All applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement OR a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination OR panel recommendation that includes all the requirements as described under the Qualifications Section in the vacancy announcement. If you fail to provide requested information by the closing date of this announcement, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. 2 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of work experience with State Department regulations, requirements, accounting structures, and automated and manual accounting systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have performed work in one or more of these areas under supervision. I have performed work in one or more of these areas as a member of a team. I have performed work in one or more of these areas independently. I have supervised others in one or more of these areas. 2 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Audit entrance / exit conferences Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 3 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Developing, updating and executing portions of a project plan Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing work for technical adequacy and completeness Ensuring timelines and milestones are met Resolving personnel conflicts, differences or problems that have arisen in the work unit Coaching and mentoring individuals / team members to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implemented steps to maintain and improve morale None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in assessing complex issues and using that information to develop solutions? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have done this under supervision. I have done this as a member of a team. I have done this independently. I have supervised others. 5 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 6 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used financial or management data to analyze a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted an audit Summarized deficiencies Developed recommendations for system changes Used statistical methods to analyze an issue Resolved discrepancies in an accounting system Analyzed the effectiveness of accounting systems Reconciled differences between financial statements Developed solutions to meet customer needs Developed internal control programs / methods Reconciled general ledger balances None of the above 7 Do you have experience researching laws and regulations to develop policy? Answer to this question is required I have independently researched laws and regulations for research and/or work projects. I have investigated laws and regulations for research and/or work projects as part of a team. I have investigated laws and regulations for research and/or work projects with close supervision. I have education or training in this area. I have no education or experience related to policy analysis. 8 From the following list, identify those certifications or designations related to financial management that you have obtained. Answer to this question is required Certified Public Accountant Certified Government Financial Manager Certified Internal Auditor Certified Fraud Examiner Certified Management Accountant Other relevant certifications Membership in a financial or accounting professional association None of the above 9 I have performed the following activities to plan and organize work to meet goals and objectives: (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Prioritized multiple assignments or tasks Divided large / extended tasks into smaller components Estimated work hours required to complete tasks Estimated resource needs for specific tasks Developed and document project plans and checklists to track assignments or tasks Adjusted workload across project staff as needed Planned budget requirements for specific tasks None of the above 10 From the following list, identify those certifications or designations related to financial management that you have obtained. Answer to this question is required Certified Public Accountant Certified Government Financial Manager Certified Internal Auditor Certified Fraud Examiner Certified Management Accountant Other relevant certifications Membership in a financial or accounting professional association None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.