Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst communicates with a wide variety of individuals internal and external to the agency for the purpose of providing and exchanging information relating to the development and analysis of the assessment and skill development and reentry related strategies. He/she must possess the ability to effectively converse with all levels of staff within the agency and external organizations to conduct training, facilitate meetings, and provide presentations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to managers and staff on matters relating to operating guidelines; and/or I have briefed support managers and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have assisted in the development and facilitation of training and presentations for a variety of audiences. I have briefed management on issues within and outside of a discipline; and/or I have provided highly technical information during meetings, conferences or other forums to line staff, executive level staff, community organizations, and other external entities (public and private agencies); and/or I have utilized skills to influence or persuade others to use particular approaches to aid in meeting objectives; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations at national conferences and local venues. I have provided assistance to a technical management team; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to internal managers, and assisted less experienced staff with internal review studies on operations. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of presentations, reports, spread sheets, charts, correspondence, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy and institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared final articles for publication in internal/external newsletters; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal agency/organization requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. I have developed a training manual/procedural guide, in laymen’s terms for programs and systems; and/or I have developed national policy; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received from high-level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited technical correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy and current procedures; and/or I have prepared documentation which justified decisions made by the agency or other organizations; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have prepared charts and files in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to updated current organizational charts; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for gathering, analyzing and evaluating management information, programs, and policies as the subject matter relates to the assessments, skills building and reentry of federal offenders. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered documentation to respond to inquiries; and/or I have assisted in determining trends for higher level review; and/or I have made recommendations for problem/issue resolution for higher level approval. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have participated as a member of a work group charged with gathering information for special projects; and/or I have participated in the management assessment process; and/or I have participated on a section work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. I have extracted complex computer data and established spreadsheets, evaluated practices and proposed changes aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the program; and/or I have chaired a work group charged with gathering information for special projects; and/or I have evaluated and reported on a major issue; and/or I have conducted an audit project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for further research. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain a good working relationship with all levels of management and staff internal and external to the organization to obtain information and accomplish skill development and reentry related initiatives. He/she will represent diverse backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved conflicting priorities among stakeholders and achieved program goals; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have addressed and implemented programs focused on successful offender reentry. I have assisted with external activities (i.e., open house for specific groups or tours); and/or I have spoken at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnership with local elementary school; and/or I have participated as requested with institution community relations board activities. I have scheduled and maintained a calendar for a work group to discuss organization changes; and/or I have participated on local work groups for strategic planning; and/or I have facilitated local annual training; and/or I have worked with peers to accomplish program objectives. None of the above. 6 SEQ CHAPTER \h \r 1 The Management Analyst must input and extract computer data and manipulate data content from a wide variety of sources. &nbsp; He/she must prepare a variety of written documents, overheads, graphs and other computer-generated materials for high-level government and non-government briefings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared technical correspondence using Microsoft Word or other word-processing software; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have created spreadsheets with basic formulas, using Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software; and/or I have entered data using commercial or agency prepared software; and/or I have established and maintained a database. I have developed technical documentation (i.e., systems design, user guides flow diagrams); and/or I have designed and maintained websites and other technical mediums to facilitate communications; and/or I have created spreadsheets using complex formulas and intra-dependent worksheets in Microsoft Excel or similar type of spreadsheet, which improved the accuracy and effectiveness of an operation; and/or I have provided instruction to staff on the use of numerous more complicated software applications. I have prepared a presentation for management, which included slides, using presentations software packages (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, and Adobe Acrobat); and/or I have recognized and corrected data deficiencies; and/or I have input or retrieved technical/non-routine information from computer program for management/staff; and/or I have trained a person in the use of training tools and use of basic computer software; and/or I have developed and maintained a web page for the division. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).