Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-14 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include: reviewing and evaluating agency internal controls; providing technical guidance for financial and/or performance audits of agency programs and administrative activities; performing time-phased audits of agency activities that evaluated programs, functional areas, financial management, and/or operations. I do not possess the experience described above. 2 All candidates for Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: A. Degree: auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. OR B. Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: 1. A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or 2.Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in (A) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B-1) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B-2) above. I do not meet any of the choices above. 3 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 3.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 3.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 4 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 7 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 8 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).