Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 2 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describe your highest level of elevator mechanic work. Answer to this question is required Independently responded to unusual types of elevator maintenance and repair situations. Ensured that elevator systems were operating at optimum levels. Planned, laid out, tested, adjusted, and reworked procedures to complete repair work with little or no technical assistance. Completed electro-mechanical maintenance and repair assignments as described in oral or written general instructions or work orders with appropriate blueprints, schematics, specifications, and regulatory codes. Performed elevator maintenance and repair work under close supervision. Such tasks include replacing burned-out fuses, lights, and signal systems; replacing worn brushes, bearings, armatures, bad shunts, contacts, etc. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 4 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience applying electrical principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying electrical principles. I have completed coursework on electrical principles, but have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have applied electrical principles to wire a series circuit. I have applied electrical principles to wire a parallel circuit. I have applied electrical principles to wire multiple integrated circuits. 5 Do you have experience interpreting electrical codes to ensure the compliance of elevator wiring? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which integrated digital control systems have you repaired? Answer to this question is required IMC Performa I-Control IMC SCR (made up of 12 Pulse SCR technology) A digital drive unit with interface relay, printed circuit boards, capacitors, fuses, diodes, triacs, and processing algorithms None of the above 7 Which of the following transport equipment have you repaired, adjusted, maintained or inspected? Answer to this question is required Passenger elevators Freight elevators Hydraulic elevators Traction elevators Climbing elevators Motorized rollup doors Rack-and-pinion elevators AC Drive elevator systems Escalators DC Drive elevator systems Cable lifts (stair, stage, orchestra, boat, scissor) None of the above 8 Do you have experience using service tools to perform elevator diagnostics? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which equipment have you operated to test elevator electrical systems? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohmmeters Signal generators Oscilloscopes Multimeter Megohmeter None of the above 10 Which types of control circuits have you used? Answer to this question is required Parallel Reverse Self-holding Dynamic Suicide None of the above 11 Which of the following tools have you used in the Elevator Mechanic occupation? Answer to this question is required Hydraulic pressure gauges Pressure gauges Feeler gauges Screwdrivers Wire strippers Channel locks Snap ring pliers Insulated pliers Torque Wrenches Cordless drills Test lamps None of the above 12 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above 13 Do you have experience trouble shooting elevator systems by calibrating the swing panel? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which of the following have you used to test live circuits or components to diagnose malfunctions? Answer to this question is required Oscilloscope Recording meters Event recorders Thermographic instruments None of the above 15 Select the response that best describe your ability to identify problems, determine possible solutions, and actively work to resolve the issues. Answer to this question is required Determined circuit configurations and functions of complex electronic systems in the absence of documentation. Identified problems with complex systems or electronic instrumentation through preventive and corrective maintenance. Operated specialized test equipment to troubleshoot and repair non-standard electronic devices and systems. Identified and resolved standard/routine problems with electronic systems and devices through routine inspection and preventive maintenance after system/equipment failure or when updating equipment with new technologies. Operated standard test equipment to troubleshoot and repair electronic systems and devices that are well documented with wiring and schematics and factory maintenance manuals. I have not applied any of the problem solving methods described above. 16 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying elevator codes? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting or applying elevator codes. I reviewed elevator codes as directed by a senior employee or journeyman. I have interpreted and applied elevator codes to ensure compliance of elevator systems. 17 Do you have experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 17.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.