Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 4 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 6 Select the response that best describes level of experience in managing databases, generating reports and analyzing project data.. Answer to this question is required I have assisted in data input and report generation. I have created, populated and organized multiple databases used by groups of users. I have managed numerous databases, conducted extensive data analysis, prepared comprehensive reports, and from this established recommendations for consideration. None of the above 7 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience in providing logistic liaison and administrative services to the recipients whom you serve? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 9 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to facilitate communication through consensus building and teamwork. Answer to this question is required I have served as a team leader working collaboratively to resolve problems quickly and constructively, examining the options and providing sensitivity to bring all stakeholders on board to a common position. I have assisted team members and customers reach agreement and applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to human resources problems and/or conflicts. I have led teams through differences and promoted discussion of divergent views to reach operational agreement or consensus on issues. I have worked in groups and teams; conducting briefings and other meetings; gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; anticipates issues and facilitates win-win situations. None of the above. 10 Please select all responses that describe your experience compiling information for reports/briefings. Answer to this question is required Gather materials to be routed for information or to be distributed at recurring meetings. Compile factual information from sources within assigned work area. Check indices of central systems for very specific information. Present information in logical fashion. Collect, compile, and retrieve information from various sources within an organization. Compile relevant information and present it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in retaining your composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people and attitudes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Indicate the extent to which you have reviewed correspondence for proper format, conformance with instructions or manuals, grammar, typographical accuracy, attachments, and coordination. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knoweledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.