Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of International Trade and Finance** Have knowledge of theories, current literature and its policy context, laws, and regulations, concepts, processes, techniques principles, and/or practices relevant to international trade and finance. This includes understanding U.S. trade performance and international trade patterns and composition; international trade and economic policy issues and institutions; global economic developments including the role of the U.S. in the global economy; and interrelationships with other key international trade and economic policy issues, such as customs and tariffs, trade barriers and practices, export promotion programs, and controls, trade agreements and negotiations, foreign economic relations, operation of the World Trade Organization, organization of U.S. trade policy functions, and U.S. trade and economic relationships with major economies and regions, including emerging economies. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an individual with the most advanced expertise in international trade and finance and related complex issues and programs. For example, regularly consulted and advised decision-makers at the highest levels of the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, agency heads, CEOs) on international trade and finance issues; directed and/or evaluated public policy programs concerning international trade and finance; served as a senior-level research associate in a think tank or comparable research organization; or equivalent experience. Recognized as an expert in international trade and finance with knowledge of related complex issues and programs. For example, consulted on international trade and finance issues with national decision-makers in the public or private sector; developed and/or implemented public policy programs concerning international trade and finance; served as a research associate in a think tank or comparable research organization; or equivalent experience. Recognized by decision-makers as a professional resource on international trade and finance. For example, published several articles in peer-reviewed professional journals on international trade and finance issues; served as a faculty member in international trade and finance; served as a research analyst or fellow on international trade and finance in a think tank or comparable research organization; or equivalent experience. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to Manage Research** Managed research policy analysis relevant to international trade and finance issues by: 1) leading, planning, organizing, and coordinating research projects related to public policy issues concerning international trade and finance; 2) understanding the big picture, the inter-relationships of all aspects of the public policy issue, and the appropriate array and design of products and services to meet the client needs; 3) ensuring public policy problems are appropriately conceptualized and defined; 4) determining appropriate research approaches and frameworks, analytical methodologies (including quantitative analytical methods), and techniques; 5) ensuring information and research are fully analyzed and synthesized; 6) ensuring the implications of data and research findings are identified and appropriate conclusions are drawn; and 7) generating and assessing alternatives and the consequences of choosing each alternative. Answer to this question is required As a major job responsibility, managed research policy analysis relevant to international trade and finance and, in doing so, exercised ALL of the research management responsibilities listed above. For example, is/was a Research Manager in a governmental policy research organization, a university public policy research institute, a public policy think tank, or a professional or trade association; a Legislative Director in a congressional office; or equivalent experience. Routinely managed research policy analysis relevant to international trade and finance and, in doing so, exercised ALL of the research management responsibilities listed above. For example, routinely served as a project team leader or coordinator. Occasionally managed research policy analysis relevant to international trade and finance and, in doing so, exercised ALL of the research management responsibilities listed above. For example, served as a project team leader or coordinator. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to Review the Analysis of Others** Evaluated the analytical products and services of others to meet the quality standards of a public policy organization (e.g., management or peer review). This includes making suggestions to improve this material and being able to articulate clearly the problems and concerns about the material as well as suggestions for remedies where appropriate. Answer to this question is required As a major job responsibility, evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services relating to public policy issues for compliance with established qualitative standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Was responsible for suggesting revisions to improve content and organization of this material and for ensuring its consistency with standards. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical public policy products and services directed at high-level decision makers. Routinely evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services relating to public policy issues for compliance with established qualitative standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Offered suggestions to improve material. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical public policy products and services directed at decision makers. Occasionally evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services relating to public policy issues for compliance with established qualitative standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to Lead and Manage Staff Led, supervised, coordinated, or managed a highly professional workforce or project team and, in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) participated in assessing current and future staffing and/or project team needs; 2) assisted with recruiting, hiring, and training staff and/or project team members; 3) when necessary, took action to remove employees or change composition of a project team; 4) held staff and/or project team accountable for meeting established performance standards; 5) ensured that work of staff and/or project team was appropriately delegated; 6) provided regular constructive feedback and coaching toward goal attainment; 7) provided opportunities for job enrichment and advancement; 8) encouraged the active participation of employees or team members in planning and decision-making; and 9) identified and implemented methods to improve staff and/or project team productivity. Answer to this question is required Have extensive experience leading or managing a PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH STAFF OR TEAM and, in doing so, exercised ALL of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Led or managed a PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH STAFF OR TEAM and, in doing so, exercised AT LEAST SEVEN of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Led or managed PROFESSIONAL RESEARCH STAFF OR TEAM and, in doing so, exercised AT LEAST FIVE of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to Communicate in Writing Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on public policy issues related to international trade and finance in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: decision memos, research analyses, briefing papers, analyses of options, evaluation of legislative proposals, and articles covering a complex public policy issue for a major national or trade publication. Answer to this question is required As a principal job responsibility, wrote a variety of authoritative analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to advise senior decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to international trade and finance and included the full range of products described above. Routinely wrote a variety of analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to international trade and finance and included most of the products described above. Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues related to international trade and finance for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products included at least three of the examples described above. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to Convey Information Orally through Briefings, Consultations, and Other Presentations Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to international trade and finance. This included tailoring the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Routinely consulted with, advised, and briefed decision-makers at the highest level on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance. Contacts were often initiated by decision-makers. Settings were often unstructured and included those where audience knowledge of the issue ranged from expert to layman and the presenter had to respond to questions without benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Examples include testifying before a committee of the U.S. Congress or a state legislature; providing oral policy briefings or formal presentations to senior officials in the private or public sector (e.g., CEOs, agency heads, executive committees, state legislators); or equivalent experience. Routinely briefed and presented analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to mid-level decision-makers in addition to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were sometimes unstructured and included those where audience knowledge of the issue ranged from expert to layman and the presenter had to respond to questions without benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Examples include providing oral policy briefings or formal presentations to mid-level officials in the private or public sector; acting as a spokesperson for an agency or a public affairs representative for a national corporation defending a program or policy decision or action; conducting policy briefings for the press; or equivalent experience. Frequently presented analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings included those that were unstructured. Examples include explaining agency or corporate programs to audiences with various levels of knowledge of the issue, briefing and responding to questions from policy-makers, teaching a public policy course, or equivalent experience. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Knowledge of Congressional Decision-Making Have knowledge of congressional processes by which legislation becomes law, the federal budget process, the appropriations process, and oversight, sufficient to provide timely and relevant assistance to congressional Members, committees, and staff. Answer to this question is required Gained a comprehensive knowledge of and involvement with the congressional decision-making processes. For example, served as a HIGH-LEVEL staff for a Member or congressional committee, for a congressional support agency, for a federal agency in the executive or judicial branch, or for other groups such as a private public policy organization, or equivalent experience. Gained a comprehensive knowledge of and involvement with the congressional decision-making processes. For example, served as a MID-LEVEL staff for a Member or congressional committee, for a congressional support agency, for a federal agency in the executive or judicial branch, or for other groups such as a private public policy organization, or equivalent experience. Gained knowledge of the congressional decision-making processes through, for example, concentrated research or education at a post-secondary educational institution or experience such as writing a thesis or dissertation on Congress, serving as a fellow with a congressional office or committee, advising clients on legislative issues, or equivalent experience. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).