Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of federal employee benefit programs to provide support.** Provided Federal benefit information and assistance to managers and employees, including the processing of benefit enrollments and changes. Answer to this question is required Reviewed procedures and guidelines associated with Federal benefit programs to establish eligibility, provide information to employees and/or process claims. Resolved discrepancies and obtained missing data from files to provide information to specialists on federal benefit eligibility. Assisted others in completing benefit enrollment and change forms; verified information and completed administrative transactions. Resolved discrepancies and obtained missing data from forms or files to provide information to customers. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide customer service while exercising judgment and discretion.** Provided quality customer service in a positive and professional manner by recognizing client needs, effectively working with a wide variety of individuals to disseminate information, answering inquiries from staff and the public putting the client first, and working within agency/departmental standards. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, independently provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., in-person, telephone, email, online, and written documents). Communicated with customers and provided expert knowledge of products and services offered by the organization/business. Handled a high volume of customer needs through first-contact resolution. Identified customer complaints and offered solutions to resolve complaints. Contacted customers to notify them of the status of inquiries and the plan of action to resolve complaints. Followed through to ensure customer complaints were resolved in established timeframe and worked with customers with diplomacy and discretion. With minimal supervision in a professional environment, provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., in-person, telephone, email, online, and written documents). Handled customer needs through first-contact resolution. Identified customer complaints and offered solutions to resolve complaints. Contacted customers to notify them of the status of inquiries and the plan of action to resolve complaints. Followed through to ensure customer complaints were resolved in established timeframe and worked with customers with diplomacy and discretion. With supervision in a professional environment, provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and written documents). Responded to various routine customer inquiries. Handled customer needs through first-contact resolution. Identified customer complaints and offered solutions to resolve complaints. Contacted customers to notify them of the status of inquiries and the plan of action to resolve complaints. Followed through to ensure customer complaints were resolved in established timeframe and worked with customers with diplomacy and discretion. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Attention to detail.** Prepared error-free written information and database content as well as verified the accuracy, completeness, and format of own and others&rsquo; documentation. &nbsp;This included checking consistency, facts, sources or identifying missing or inconsistent information by reviewing printed and electronic documents, statistical data, tables, forms, or lists, etc. Answer to this question is required Frequently conducted FINAL QUALITY REVIEW of administrative and informational documents and data to verify the accuracy and completeness of BOTH CONTENT AND FORMAT. Identified errors or gaps in information or data and reported those inconsistencies to the appropriate person or corrected them independently based on his/her feedback. Was responsible for accuracy of documents and data. Frequently conducted INITIAL REVIEW of administrative and informational documents and data to verify the accuracy and completeness of BOTH CONTENT AND FORMAT. Identified errors or gaps in data and reported those inconsistencies to others for further action. Frequently conducted INITIAL REVIEW of correspondence or administrative documents to ensure completeness. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to utilize computer technology and software applications. Utilized computer technology to perform work for an organization, including: 1) word-processing (e.g., MS Word), 2) Spreadsheet software &nbsp;(e.g., MS Excel), 3) Human Resources software (e.g., Time and Attendance), and 4) Request and Ticketing Software (e.g., Platform Software such as SBM or ServiceNow). Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision used and demonstrated competence with at least THREE of the above, including 2) Spreadsheet software (e.g., MS Excel). Independently or with minimal supervision used and demonstrated competence with TWO of the above, including 2) Spreadsheet software (e.g., MS Excel). Independently or with minimal supervision, used and demonstrated competence with ONE of the above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations. Worked with detailed information, written procedures and instructions to organize and handle work assignments. For example, regularly used judgment to identify and select the most appropriate procedures to use by choosing from among several established alternatives and using judgement to handle work assignments when guidelines did not fully cover the situation. Answer to this question is required With minimal supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products, and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with a high degree of speed and accuracy. Under supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with a high degree of speed and accuracy. Under supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Composed non-technical correspondence such as emails, letters, memos, and instructions, using correct grammar, spelling, and proper format. Answer to this question is required Drafted, prepared, and/or proofread COMPLEX written material for review and final approval by management. Materials were distributed INSIDE and OUTSIDE an organization/service unit/department. For example, composed personnel-related documents and written instructions describing procedures for various office functions (e.g., requesting procurements, authoring standard operating procedures and/or opening services requests for incoming mail). Drafted, prepared, and/or proofread ROUTINE, written material for review and final approval by management. Materials were distributed INSIDE and OUTSIDE an organization/service unit/department. For example, composed personnel-related documents and written instructions describing procedures for various office functions (e.g., requesting procurements, authoring standard operating procedures and/or opening services requests for incoming mail). Drafted, prepared, and/or proofread ROUTINE, written material for review and final approval by management. Materials were used exclusively INSIDE an organization/service unit or department. For example, composed personnel-related documents and written instructions describing procedures for various office functions (e.g., requesting procurements, authoring standard operating procedures and/or opening services requests for incoming mail). None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).