Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 From the list below, select the items that best describes your level of education and/or experience in aeronautics. Answer to this question is required I have had a long-term personal interest I have had courses at the undergraduate level I have had courses at the graduate level I have had other relevant education or field experience I have had an internship(s) I have participated in volunteer work I have had on-the-job training I have had closely-supervised work experience in aeronautics I have been part of a team that works on aeronautics projects I have had independent work experience in aeronautics I have supervised others on aeronautics-related projects None of the above 3 Which of the following aircraft, missile, or spacecraft training and/or work experience do you have? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Aviation/aviation systems related technician training Aviation/aviation systems related technician work experience Missile technician training Missile technician work experience Space hardware related technician training Space hardware related technician work experience Pilot or flight crew member training None of the above 4 Which of the following resources have you used in past work to handle aircraft that are constructed of various materials? Answer to this question is required Equipment manuals Technical publications Personal contacts Archival documents Catalog records Photographs Log book for airplane Mechanics textbooks FAA publications None of the above 5 From the list below, select the item that best describes your level of work experience in artifact preservation Answer to this question is required I have participated in volunteer work which is equal to one year or more of full-time experience I have had on-the-job training I have had closely-supervised work experience in artifact preservation I have been part of a team that works on artifact preservation projects I have had independent work experience in artifact preservation I have supervised others on artifact preservation-related projects I have no work experience in the field of artifact preservation 6 With which of the following tools are you proficient? Answer to this question is required Table saw Circular saw Band saw Reciprocating saw Drill press Sander Router Planer Pneumatic nail / staple gun Other stationary tools or power tools I am not proficient with stationary tools or power hand tools 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of training or experience in the use of stationary and/or hand power tools? Answer to this question is required High school shop Common household repairs Hobbies that involve hand tools Trade school classes College-level courses On-the-job training Work in the construction field Custom shop or crating experience Other training or experience I have no training or experience in the use of stationary tools or power hand tools 8 Which of the following responses best describe your experience performing painting duties using accepted trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed painting duties using accepted trade practices as a regular part of the job. I have had training/education in the painting trade but I have not performed these duties on the job. I have assisted others in performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have led and/or monitored the work of others performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have no training, education or experience performing painting duties. 9 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required Asbestos/carcinogenic materials Radioactive materials Hazardous chemicals Flammable chemicals Pesticides Biohazards Heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above 10 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 11 Which of the following types of fabrication equipment have you performed or assisted in performing sheet metal fabrication? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Brakes Rollers Spot Welders Shears None of the above 12 Indicate all of the following computer software applications that you have used as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Project management software (e.g., MS project) Integrated office software (e.g., Corel office, MS office) Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software Computer aided design (CAD) software Database management systems Digital imaging software Collections information systems (e.g., EMu, TMS) Internet browsers Web authoring software (e.g., Frontpage, Macromedia) Other common office software applications I do not have experience with any common office software applications 13 Which of the following types of written products have you prepared? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Training/instructional aids. Standardized reports. Procedures and guidelines. Formal correspondence. Non-research articles. Other written communication. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 15 I have applied experience in a museum or related setting handling the following types of museum specimens, artifacts, and/or collections Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic) Modern Aircraft Mixed media art objects Piston engines Spacecraft Rocket/missiles Large Sculpture Ultra-light aircraft Gliders Jet Engines Fabric covered aircraft Other types of technical or industrial museum collections (i.e. automotive, marine, manufacturing) None of the above Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 From the list below, select the item that best describes your level of work experience aeronautics. Answer to this question is required I have participated in volunteer work I have had on-the-job training Aeronautical activities were a small part of my responsibilities in my previous job Aeronautical activities were a large part of my responsibilities in my previous job I have no work experience in the field of aeronautics 3 Which of the following FAA airman certificates or civil aviation certifications do you currently hold? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Licensed aircraft mechanic (airframe and power plant mechanics license). Airframe and power plant mechanic's license with inspection authorization. Civil aviation airman certificate issued by another government or agency. FAA pilot's license of any type. Other FAA airman certificate or ratings. I do not hold any of these certifications. 4 Which of the following aircraft, missile, or spacecraft training and/or work experience do you have? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Aviation/aviation systems related technician training Aviation/aviation systems related technician work experience Missile technician training Missile technician work experience Space hardware related technician training Space hardware related technician work experience Pilot or flight crew member training None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your highest level of maintenance experience, education and/or training? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training None of the above 6 With which of the following tools are you proficient? Answer to this question is required Table saw Circular saw Band saw Reciprocating saw Drill press Sander Router Planer Pneumatic nail / staple gun Other stationary tools or power tools I am not proficient with stationary tools or power hand tools 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of training or experience in the use of stationary and/or hand power tools? Answer to this question is required High school shop Common household repairs Hobbies that involve hand tools Trade school classes College-level courses On-the-job training Work in the construction field Custom shop or crating experience Other training or experience I have no training or experience in the use of stationary tools or power hand tools 8 Which of the following types of fabrication equipment have you performed or assisted in performing sheet metal fabrication? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Brakes Rollers Spot Welders Shears None of the above 9 Which of the following type(s) of hand tools do you have experience using in the fabrication of metal work? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Hammer Electric shears Torches Crimpers Right/left snipes Cutters None of the above 10 Which of the following responses best describe your experience performing painting duties using accepted trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed painting duties using accepted trade practices as a regular part of the job. I have had training/education in the painting trade but I have not performed these duties on the job. I have assisted others in performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have led and/or monitored the work of others performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have no training, education or experience performing painting duties. 11 Indicate all of the following computer software applications that you have used as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Project management software (e.g., MS project) Integrated office software (e.g., Corel office, MS office) Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software Computer aided design (CAD) software Database management systems Digital imaging software Collections information systems (e.g., EMu, TMS) Internet browsers Web authoring software (e.g., Frontpage, Macromedia) Other common office software applications I do not have experience with any common office software applications 12 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Waiver requests Training/instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Research and/or development grant proposals Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Executive summaries Newsletter articles Other written communications None of the above 13 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required asbestos/carcinogenic materials radioactive materials hazardous chemicals flammable chemicals pesticides biohazards heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above 14 Which of the following describes your experience in a museum or related setting working with the following types of museum specimens, artifacts, and/or collections in a registrarial or collections management context? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Aircraft. Spacecraft, rockets and/or missiles. Artwork , including paintings (water color, oil, acrylic), prints, and/or sculptures Military and civilian uniforms. Aircraft and spacecraft models Other types of technical or industrial museum collections (i.e. automotive, marine, manufacturing). None of the above. 15 From the list below, select the item that best describes your level of work experience in artifact preservation Answer to this question is required I have participated in volunteer work which is equal to one year or more of full-time experience I have had on-the-job training I have had closely-supervised work experience in artifact preservation I have been part of a team that works on artifact preservation projects I have had independent work experience in artifact preservation I have supervised others on artifact preservation-related projects I have no work experience in the field of artifact preservation 16 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 17 Which of the following resources have you used in past work to handle aircraft that are constructed of various materials? Answer to this question is required Equipment manuals Technical publications Personal contacts Archival documents Catalog records Photographs Log book for airplane Mechanics textbooks FAA publications None of the above 18 Which of the following choices best describes your interaction with others in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required In my previous employment or education I worked mostly on my own I routinely worked as part of a group with minimal external contact I worked as part of a group of peers and had responsibilities which involved contact with members of the public I have worked with museum personnel and non-museum personnel while in a museum position None of the above 19 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 20 I have applied experience in a museum or related setting handling the following types of museum specimens, artifacts, and/or collections Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic) Modern Aircraft Mixed media art objects Piston engines Spacecraft Rocket/missiles Large Sculpture Ultra-light aircraft Gliders Jet Engines Fabric covered aircraft Other types of technical or industrial museum collections (i.e. automotive, marine, manufacturing) None of the above 21 Do you have experience with crane operation? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Operated cranes at various boom lengths, angles, and position. Operated a fixed position crane. Operated and moved a mobile crane. Used a boom crane to load and unload crates, lumber or equipment at worksites or outdoor storage areas. Researched load limits and safety factors of cables and straps for loads approaching the lifting capacity. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.