Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: SL No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. Applicants must address the following mandatory qualifications&nbsp;separate from their resumes. Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical qualifications.&nbsp; You will not be considered for this position if you fail to submit qualification statements specifically addressing each mandatory technical qualification requirement. 3 The Museum Curator Series, 1015, has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR), which must be met for this position in addition to the minimum qualification requirement. From the options below, select the one response which describes your educational or experience background. Education above the high school level must have been completed in a U.S. college, university, or other educational institution that has been accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I possess four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. We are interested in your experience in researching works of art, since that function is prominent in this role. Have you overseen major art historical research projects? Were those projects in the area of contemporary or modern and contemporary art of the global south or in other areas? Did the research involve directing others and were you responsible for assigning and approving work? What were the outcomes of your research? Provide links to the work if applicable. This role benefits from someone who has experience across museum departments and divisions to develop and implement projects and initiatives that support or advance a larger institutional vision. Have you had to initiate or participate in a large museum project that required cross-departmental work related to contemporary art or modern and contemporary art of the Global South? Did you have to develop strategies to advance that collaborative effort? Were you responsible for build team consensus and creating a final product? Describe your skill in acquisitions related to contemporary art or modern and contemporary of the Global South. Have you developed a strategic collecting plan or determined priorities? How did you gain consensus from stakeholders on what pieces of art to acquire? Describe the situation and any obstacles you overcame. How recent was this experience? &nbsp; Describe your recent experience with networking on behalf of an organization. How recent was it? What kinds of relationships have you developed and how? Are you active in any professional organization, particularly in CAA, AAM, AAMC, and CiMAM-specific networking, but regardless, which organizations or affinity groups afforded you a chance to work with groups in similar or complementary fields to yours? What activities were involved in the networking experiences (presenting, listening, teaching, social, serving as officer, etc)? &nbsp; Describe your skill in setting short- and long-term goals for yourself and others. How have you ensured that the activities of a team are well-integrated with those of other teams? How have you planned a year or more ahead of time, and then delivered on that plan? Address the way and frequency with which you have collaborated with others to achieve something bigger than one person can achieve. Elaborate on methods and outcomes related to generating new ideas for opportunities and initiatives to advance an employer's goals. Has professional development and education factored into the way you lead others &ndash; how do you keep up to date on the latest information in your field? Describe the way you supervise and mentor others, including the full range of hiring, supervising and terminating as circumstances warrant. &nbsp; View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.