Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have a degree in industrial hygiene or a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. Courses in the history or teaching of chemistry are not acceptable. I have a combination of education and experience -- at least 12 semester hours of course work in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours as specified in above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 2 How often have you interpreted and applied Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 How often have you conducted inspections, assessments, and evaluations of working environments, operations, procedures, equipment, and processes to identify, analyze, and evaluate potential Radioactive substances and/or materials? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your training, or experience in following established procedures to serve as Program Manager for SI Radiation Dosimetry Program? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describe your ability to provide radiological measurements and assistance regarding collection items maintained in storage? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 How often have you assessed radiological conditions and generated a written evaluation of findings? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describe your experience and/or ability to monitor and inventory Tritium Exit signs and ensure that all disposal/transfer/installation of items are completed in accordance with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulatory requirements? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in giving oral presentations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in giving oral presentations and conducting training classes regarding Radioactive substances and materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in conducting any or all of the following studies/projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted human health risk and radiological assessment studies. I have conducted environmental/ecological risk assessment and hazard studies. I have conducted national environmental requirements and impact studies. I have conducted international environmental requirements and impact studies. I have conducted Federal Facilities compliance reviews. I have worked on pollution prevention and/or recycling issues and projects. I have developed quality assurance criteria for environmental programs. I have conducted environmental occurrence and/or exposure studies. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to ensure the security of agency licensed radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 How often have you used Dose Rate measurements to calculate the activity of radiological materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and conducting surveys of radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your ability to managed contracts pertaining to radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have a degree in industrial hygiene or a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. Courses in the history or teaching of chemistry are not acceptable. I have a combination of education and experience -- at least 12 semester hours of course work in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours as specified in above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 2 How often have you interpreted and applied Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 How often have you conducted inspections, assessments, and evaluations of working environments, operations, procedures, equipment, and processes to identify, analyze, and evaluate potential Radioactive substances and/or materials? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your training, or experience in following established procedures to serve as Program Manager for SI Radiation Dosimetry Program? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describe your ability to provide radiological measurements and assistance regarding collection items maintained in storage? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 How often have you assessed radiological conditions and generated a written evaluation of findings? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describe your experience and/or ability to monitor and inventory Tritium Exit signs and ensure that all disposal/transfer/installation of items are completed in accordance with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulatory requirements? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in giving oral presentations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in giving oral presentations and conducting training classes regarding Radioactive substances and materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in conducting any or all of the following studies/projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted human health risk and radiological assessment studies. I have conducted environmental/ecological risk assessment and hazard studies. I have conducted national environmental requirements and impact studies. I have conducted international environmental requirements and impact studies. I have conducted Federal Facilities compliance reviews. I have worked on pollution prevention and/or recycling issues and projects. I have developed quality assurance criteria for environmental programs. I have conducted environmental occurrence and/or exposure studies. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to ensure the security of agency licensed radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 How often have you used Dose Rate measurements to calculate the activity of radiological materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and conducting surveys of radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your ability to managed contracts pertaining to radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following best describes your ability to ensure compliance working with local authorities and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) representatives? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following best reflects your ability to ensure appropriate training of staff handling radioactive materials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others, or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.