Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Public Affairs Specialist prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, etc., on highly sensitive/technical topics. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include high level agency officials, staff of other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities, and the general public through the media. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations, etc., in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures, etc.; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal, magazine, etc.); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees; and/or I have developed national training initiatives; and/or I have written speeches for use by high level staff; and/or I have prepared and edited talking points and national media releases or statements. I have prepared draft articles for agency or organization website/Human Resource Management Division (HRMD) update, etc.; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal agency/organization requests received; and/or I have documented findings as Reviewer in Charge in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. None of the above. 5 The Public Affairs Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the media and the general public, to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs/procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have participated on a work group which included members of the executive staff/upper management in other agencies by providing suggestions, updates, and feedback; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given formal presentations to the executive staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with labor union; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have served on a workforce utilization committee by providing updates, feedback, and suggestions; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 6 The Public Affairs Specialist must direct aspects of public affairs programs, which includes identifying issues that impact the agency, determining the most effective methods or techniques to be used in reaching audiences, and developing communication strategies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured exhibits were in place for programs scheduled; and/or I have assisted in coordinating the dissemination of informational materials regarding agency/organization issues to field locations, congressional offices, the public/the news media; and/or I have facilitated a portion of a public affairs related presentation as a member of a team. I have negotiated contracts for services for public affairs programs; and/or I have determined the type of media used to advertise programs at the agency/organizational level; and/or I have made public appearances to gain support of issues/concerns affecting a local operation; and/or I have developed and planned campaign materials used for local public affairs programs; and/or I have evaluated and provided recommendations for improving an existing public affairs program or implementing a new program for management consideration. I have made public appearances to gain support of issues/concerns having agency/organization-wide impact; and/or I have collaborated statements with other involved agencies (i.e., Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United States Marshals Service (USMS), etc.) for the release of sensitive/critical information; and/or I have prepared complex, comprehensive correspondence for top management/executive staff signature or use; and/or I have notified top management/executive staff of news worthy agency/organization impacting information gathered from various sources of media; and/or I have disseminated critical information to top managers/executive staff on public affairs issues relative to corrections, Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice, etc. None of the above. 7 The Public Affairs Specialist must possess extensive knowledge of the organization, operations, and functions of the Bureau of Prisons in order to appropriately serve as the agency spokesperson. He/she must be able to evaluate and disseminate critical information relative to the Bureau of Prisons programs, policies/plans. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared press releases, talking points or other summaries of information on public policy issues for internal audiences; and/or I have authored articles for electronic and print (i.e., newsletter) media for internal audiences; and/or I have researched public policy issues/agency programs in the preparation of responses for internal audiences. I have served as a spokesperson or public affairs officer for an organization involved in the management/administration of a correctional facility or institution or corrections policy-making organization; and/or I have participated in preparing public affairs materials to communicate safety, security or correctional programs issues, corrections policy or related issues to audiences including the news media, congressional staff, other government organizations or the general public; and/or I have written talking points, speeches, press releases and other materials for distribution; and/or I have prepared senior management officials for news media interviews or encounters; and/or I have communicated regularly with the national news media on issues related to the justice system, corrections or related field. I have responded to news media inquiries on a range of sensitive public policy issues; and/or I have summarized critical or sensitive public policy issues in writing for distribution to internal and external audiences; and/or I have assisted management with drafting responses for Congressional inquiries. None of the above. 8 The Public Affairs Specialist must appropriately respond to positive, as well as negative issues impacting the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must possess the ability to encourage, defend or enlighten targeted audiences on the position of the Bureau of Prisons. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of agency policy and procedures regarding the release and dissemination of information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided general information to the news media or congressional staff; and/or I have gathered/organized items of interest for supervisory consideration; and/or I have represented the agency/organization at career fairs, explaining the benefits of employment to prospective applicants; and/or I have presented a portion of a presentation to internal/external participants. I have responded to specific questions regarding amendments to legislation impacting Bureau of Prisons operations to management officials; and/or I have acted as a representative at an agency component meeting to present issues which have attracted media attention; and/or I have provided interviews to the media on critical issues. I have provided assistance in preparing a response to the media on a major issue; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Requests; and/or I have provided information on inmates housed in the Bureau of Prisons to the public or congressional staff; and/or I have provided follow-up information, as requested to upper management officials on a long-standing issue. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).