Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a painter without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This position requires a valid State or District of Columbia driver’s license in order to transport materials, equipment or staff to job sites. Do you have a valid “state” or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 50 pounds or less. I am able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following types of training and/or education have you acquired in the painting trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Textured finishes Faux finishes Tint/Color matching Gold leaf None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your painting experience? Answer to this question is required I have had training/education in painting but I have no experience in the painting trade. I have assisted others in performing painting duties with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed painting duties as a regular part of the job I have led and/or monitor the work of others performing painting duties. None of the above 6 Which of the following compounds do you have experience repairing and finishing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Joint compound Plaster Wood fillers Glues/Adhesives Resins/Epoxy None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge with asbestos containing materials (ACM)? Answer to this question is required I have had education and/or training in asbestos containing materials. I have not had education or training with asbestos containing materials I have some training and have assisted others with asbestos containing materials I have led, trained and/or monitored the work of others in asbestos containing materials 8 Which of the following responses best describe your experience performing painting duties using accepted trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed painting duties using accepted trade practices as a regular part of the job. I have had training/education in the painting trade but I have not performed these duties on the job. I have assisted others in performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have led and/or monitored the work of others performing painting duties using accepted trade practices. I have no training, education or experience performing painting duties. 9 Do you have experience using paint tinting equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following statement(s) indicate your highest level of experience, education, or training in the painting field? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical college/Trade school Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On-the-job training None of the above 11 Which of the following responses best describe your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I have experience reading specific instructions and directions to carry out the task as needed. I have experience reading and interpreting broad instructions, specifications, and directions and making judgments about what needs to be done to complete a task or assignment. I have experience reading and interpreting instructions related to performing a routine task to carry out my day-to-day duties. I have experience preparing various types of instructions, specifications, and directions for other to read and interpret. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience using blueprints and technical data in the painting trade? Answer to this question is required I have had training/education in using blueprints and technical data in the painting trade. I have assisted others with using blueprints and technical data in the painting trade as part of a team or group. I have independently used blueprints and technical data in the painting trade as a regular part of the job I have led and/or monitored the work of others using blueprints and technical data to perform the duties in the painting trade. I have no experience using blueprints and technical data in the painting trade. 13 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Word processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines AutoCAD None of the above 14 Do you have experience utilizing work order and other written documents to perform painting/maintenance work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the painting trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tape and drop cloth Caulking gun Stencils Pneumatic sprayers Airless sprayers Basic hand tools (rollers, angle brushes, finishing tools, scrapers and knives) Basic power tools (heat gun, sanders, drills) None of the above 16 Which of the following cleaning solutions have you used in the painting trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Mineral spirits Alcohol Soap and water Turpentine None of the above 17 Which of the following paint materials do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Varnishes Dyes Stains Latex paints Oil base paints Epoxy paints coating None of the above 18 Which of the following materials do you have experience using to prepare wall finishes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Joint-compound Plaster Fiber-glass reinforced tapes Corner and J beads Dry wall None of the above 19 In which of the following safety practices have you received education and/or training? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Proper setup/Cleanup methods Chemical handling procedures and equipment operation and maintenance Job hazard analysis (JHA) Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Personal protective equipment (PPE) Hand and power tools training Lead Certification None of the above 20 Do you have experience working with Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Do you have experience working with relative humidity meters? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.