Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you prefer day shift (5:00 AM-1:30 PM), evening shift (1:00 PM to 9:30PM), or night shift (9:00 PM to 5:30AM)? If you would like to be considered for more than one shift, please list the shift in order of preference.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment? Answer to this question is required I have performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing electrical work. None of the above. 3 Select the response that most closely matches your experience leading the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification or repair of electrical systems and/or equipment: Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leading the work of employees. I completed training or education related to leadership skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I provided guidance employees about the proper way to perform a task or complete a work order. I provided guidance on the proper way to complete a work order, and monitored completed work for quality. 4 Do you have journey-level experience in the electrical occupational field? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install fittings Install relays Install boxes Install circuit breakers None of the above 6 Please select the choice(s) reflecting equipment you have used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Watt-meters Amp-meters Milliamp meters Ground fault indicators Amp probes Frequency meters Surge test equipment None of the above 7 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above 8 Which task(s) have you performed to troubleshoot electrical equipment and/or systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Read and interpret building plans Read and interpret blueprints Read and interpret sketches Read and interpret wiring diagrams None of the above 9 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Select the tasks you have performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Removed fixtures and replaced fixtures. Removed controls and replaced controls. Installed new outlets in existing circuits. Relocated outlets in existing circuits. Installed safety switches (fused or non-fused). Installed switchgears. Installed transformers. None of the above. 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.