Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors, such as tile and marble? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or training related to cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors. I have cleaned and maintained carpet with close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently cleaned and maintained carpet and floors. 2 Have you cleaned tools or equipment under the direction of a senior employee or supervisor? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the response that most closely match your highest level of experience performing floor maintenance. Answer to this question is required I have worked in building spaces under close guidance of a supervisor to monitor my work. I have cleaned building spaces for supervisory inspection. I have independently cleaned building spaces. None of the above. 4 Select the type of instructions you have interpreted and followed to perform work assignments. Answer to this question is required Oral instructions provided in-person Oral instructions provided on the telephone Work orders Written manufacturing instructions (e.g., on chemical packaging) None of the above 5 Select the activities you have performed to prepare surfaces for cleaning. Answer to this question is required Moved furniture or equipment Pre-vacuumed Swept lose dirt with a broom Gathered needed equipment and supplies Posted caution signs (e.g., wet floor) Notified supervisor of expected timeframe for task completion None of the above 6 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 7 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the type of instructions you have interpreted and followed to perform work assignments.&nbsp;Answer to this question is required&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Oral instructions provided in-person Oral instructions provided on the telephone Work orders Written manufacturing instructions (e.g., on chemical packaging) None of the above 9 Which response best describes your highest level of experience operating, maintaining and repairing floor cleaning equipment? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have independently operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment. I have operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have completed training or education in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have not operated, maintained or repaired floor cleaning equipment. 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.