Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of digital asset management practices and processes.** Demonstrated ability to manage digital assets, including knowledge of digital repositories and the ability to develop and implement procedures related to the management, archiving, and security of digital resources. Answer to this question is required Managed audio and/or video digital assets in a library or archival setting. Applied extensive knowledge of archival file handling principles and concepts applicable to long-term digital information preservation and access. Planned and executed work in multiple key areas of digital information preservation and access. Planned the preparation for and intake of digital project files and data. Evaluated established practices and workflows, and provided recommendations for improvement. Demonstrated knowledge of audio-visual file types and analog formats. Managed digital assets in a library or archival setting. Applied in-depth knowledge of archival file handling principles and concepts applicable to long-term digital information preservation and access. Planned and executed work in two or more of the key areas of digital information preservation and access; i.e., analyzing collection metadata, building project database, defining intake requirements, inspection and quality control of digital assets, analysis of digital files prior to ingest, etc. Managed digital assets in a professional setting. Applied knowledge of archival file handling principles and concepts applicable to long-term digital information preservation and access. Planned and executed work in one of the key areas of digital information preservation and access; i.e., analyzing collection metadata, building project databases, defining intake requirements, inspection and quality control of digital assets, analysis of digital files prior to ingest, etc. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to apply project management techniques and processes to implement digital library projects or programs.** Applied project management techniques and processes to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes including: 1) defining the project including its goals and objectives; 2) developing project plans; 3) estimating and allocating resources; 4) developing schedules and timelines; 5) using computer-based tools to monitor and track progress; 6) working within deadlines and budget; 7) developing communication plans and communicating with stakeholders; 8) addressing project related issues/problems; and 9) developing and implementing risk mitigation plans. Answer to this question is required Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of SIX or SEVEN of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of FOUR or FIVE of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of THREE of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of folklife, oral history, documentary studies, and/or other related subject areas to process and describe archival collections.** Used knowledge of folklife, documentary studies, oral history and/or other related subject areas to process, manage, describe and preserve multi-format ethnographic collections including: 1) born-digital materials; 2) manuscripts; 3) graphic materials; and 4) moving image materials. This also included processing and describing multi-format ethnographic collections created by cultural documentarians such as folklorists, oral historians, communities of origin, or organizations/groups focused on documenting and presenting cultural life. Answer to this question is required Demonstrates advanced knowledge of folklife, documentary studies, oral history, and related subject areas in the processing, management, description, preservation, and access of complex, multi-format ethnographic collections including ALL of the above. Independently develops and applies innovative and sustainable approaches to collections containing born-digital materials, manuscripts, graphic materials, and moving image materials, while addressing the distinct preservation, descriptive, technical, and contextual requirements of each format. Demonstrates intermediate knowledge of folklife, documentary studies, oral history, and related subject areas and applies this knowledge independently and effectively to the processing, management, description, and preservation of complex, multi-format ethnographic collections including THREE of the above. Demonstrates strong expertise in working with born-digital materials, manuscripts, graphic materials, and moving image materials, including identifying and addressing the unique intellectual, technical, descriptive, and preservation requirements associated with each format. Demonstrates elementary knowledge of folklife, documentary studies, oral history, and related subject areas to effectively process, manage, describe, and preserve multi-format ethnographic collections including AT LEAST TWO of the above. Applies established professional practices and procedures appropriately when working with born-digital materials, manuscripts, graphic materials, and moving image materials None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others at all levels. Served as a liaison and worked collaboratively with both internal and external stakeholders to coordinate with project partners to share resources and information, to address and resolve issues, and to: 1) improve workflows, presentation, and/or access; 2) develop and disseminate communication strategies; 3) develop digital content, including related policies, metadata, and standards; and 4) to develop new models for information access and delivery. Answer to this question is required Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to ALL of the above. Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to THREE of the above. Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to TWO of the above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to research, analyze, and provide solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues related to digital library services and collections, or comparable digital systems. The ability to research, analyze, and provide solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to digital library services and collections, or comparable digital systems. This includes: 1) researching physical collection issues; 2) researching and analyzing complex data and mixed-media content for digital projects; 3) maintaining current research and analytical methods; 4) advise on and develop solutions to complex digital presentation issues; 5) researching emerging library and information technologies; and 6) direct studies and testing of digital library products, best practices, and standards. Answer to this question is required Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to digital library services and collections, or comparable digital systems, in a library or archival environment. This included FIVE of the above. Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to digital library services and collections, or comparable digital systems, in a library or archival environment. This included FOUR of the above. Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to digital library services and collections, or comparable digital systems, in an academic or professional environment. This included THREE of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).