Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Audio/Visual Production Specialist must be able to determine customer requirements, and then clearly and effectively communicate ideas and recommendations about production techniques to the customer in order to gain their approval and partnership. He/she must exercise tact, diplomacy, and persuasion skills to promote creative ideas and innovative approaches in developing and managing audiovisual and multimedia projects and productions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed management about audiovisual production catalogues; and/or I have answered questions regarding audiovisual production; and/or I have participated in role plays in a class environment. I have exchanged a variety of general audio visual production information with individuals inside and outside the organization; and/or I have given an oral presentation to management on the results of a survey; and/or I have provided basic information on audiovisual production techniques; and/or I have conversed with writers, actors, set designers, sound technicians, and camera crews during the video production process. I have advised management in areas such as audiovisual production techniques; and/or I have provided ideas and recommendations as to approaches to audiovisual production; and/or I have gained partnership and approval from customers, resulting in a high quality audiovisual production. None of the above. 3 The Audio/Visual Production Specialist must be able to write outlines, proposals, scripts, and edit material suitable for audiovisual production. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated with others in writing scripts used in the completion of audiovisual productions for use as training aids; and/or I have assisted with edited material created by yourself or others to make it suitable for an audiovisual production; and/or I have assisted with writing proposals or requests for video productions. I have edited scripts created by others to make them suitable for audiovisual productions; and/or I have limited experience editing proposals for video production projects; and/or in cooperation with others, I have assisted with editing a role-play criteria description. I have written scripts used in the completion of audiovisual productions for use as training aids; and/or I have written justifications for additional audio or video equipment or staff positions; and/or I have written proposals, production budgets, or requests for productions. None of the above. 4 The Audio/Visual Production Specialist must be able to use a wide variety of graphics material available through computer-generated techniques in order to develop original designs, concepts, or visual styles for publications, exhibits, or audiovisual presentations. He/she must also be able to instruct others in the use of a variety of graphics software packages. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led others in the production of audiovisual projects using several types of computer-generated graphics for use within and outside the organization; and/or I have created and provided training on graphics software packages; and/or I have searched and acquired various clip art or text, and edited digital still photographs to enhance productions; and/or I have designed and developed original concepts using software packages to create complex media compositions. I have produced audiovisual products utilizing various graphics software packages; and/or I have utilized the proper graphics software to complement or enhance computer-based videos; and/or I have edited digital still photographs, clip art, and text for incorporation into project; and/or I have edited transitions and screen slates for video production. I have assisted with the production of audio video projects utilizing various graphics software packages; and/or I have assisted in providing training on graphics software packages; and/or I have worked with graphics software packages to assist in the design and development of video production. None of the above. 5 The Audio/Visual Production Specialist must have knowledge of various audiovisual equipment operations, such as cameras, recorders, videotaping equipment, nonlinear editing equipment, digital technologies and audiovisual processes, and techniques associated with the completion of a high quality audiovisual production. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in operation of video cameras and audio production equipment; and/or I have assisted in the editing process; and/or I have assisted with various stages of a completed video production. I have provided actual hands-on training in the use of nonlinear editing systems and professional/industrial video cameras; and/or I have provided expertise in the use of various lighting equipment and techniques and audio production equipment in both studio and field production; and/or I have provided high level of expertise in the production process from inception to completion. I have demonstrated hands-on operational capability and knowledge in the use of linear or nonlinear editing systems; and/or I have demonstrated hands-on operational capability and knowledge in the use of video cameras and audio production equipment; and/or I have demonstrated capable knowledge of the video production process. None of the above. 6 The Audiovisual Production Specialist must be able to plan, develop, and execute an audiovisual production plan, such as videotaped programs, broadcast-type, closed circuit, teleconferences and similar productions&nbsp;involving audio and lighting techniques, set designing, camera operations, music and sound accompaniments,&nbsp;narration, titles, and captions. He/she must be able to translate customer requirements into the various audio and visual elements that will communicate the desired message to the audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed production schedules and coordinated approval for scripts, filming locations, production sets, and ensured correct properties and equipment are staged in advance; and/or I have employed a high level of proficiency with various video cameras, related camera techniques and associated equipment during production. I have assisted technical experts with preproduction elements, designing studio and location sets, and equipment staging; and/or I have assisted with setup and operation of video production equipment; and/or I have assisted with the postproduction process, editing and developing of graphics elements such as titles, captions, and slate production yielding a high quality product. I have assisted with meeting customer requirements for audio, visual, and video elements; and/or I have held one or more positions as part of a video production crew such as grip, production assistant, or camera assistant; and/or I have completed a work assignment which aided in the production of informational briefings videos for posting on website or DVD distribution. I have been accountable for the postproduction processes associated with videotaped programs and events; and/or I have performed at a high level of expertise in nonlinear editing platforms and associated hardware/software; and/or I have coordinated with internal and external resources and vendors for pre and postproduction technical aspects such as captioning, audio sweetening, duplication, and distribution. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).