Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field related to the duties of the position. I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree or L.L.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service that demonstrates the specialized experience as indicated below. I have a combination of education and experience: An equivalent combination of the specialized experience and the graduate-level education described above. None of the above 2 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g., percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information Presented analyses in person None of the above 3 What types of analysis do you have experience conducting as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Analysis of survey data. Analysis of management information and requirements. Analysis of administrative control systems to prevent waste, loss, unauthorized use or misappropriation of assets. Research and analysis for business programs or operations. None of the above 4 Please choose the answer(s) below that best describe(s) your experience in applying analytical techniques. The experience can be in an academic or work environment. Answer to this question is required I have experience comparing data against objective criteria to draw conclusions as to the effectiveness of a process. I have experience interpreting and providing advice on policies, procedures, guidelines, and precedents. I have experience using other analytical tools to draw conclusions. I have experience in using database applications to store and manipulate data. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your level of engagement with stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have directly interacted with stakeholders to gather data as a regular part of my job with minimal or no supervision. I have interacted with stakeholders to gather data as a part of a team. I have occasionally interacted with stakeholders at supervised meetings. I have interacted with stakeholders on an as-needed basis. I do not have experience interacting with stakeholders. 3 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff. Identified and obtained missing information. None of the above. 4 What types of analysis do you have experience conducting as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Analysis of survey data. Analysis of management information and requirements. Analysis of administrative control systems to prevent waste, loss, unauthorized use or misappropriation of assets. Synthesis and analysis of individual and team products or assessments. Research and analysis for business programs or operations. None of the above 5 Please choose the answer(s) below that best describe(s) your experience in applying analytical techniques. The experience can be in an academic or work environment. Answer to this question is required I have experience comparing data against objective criteria to draw conclusions as to the effectiveness of a process. I have experience interpreting and providing advice on policies, procedures, guidelines, and precedents. I have experience interpreting and assessing the impact of new and revised policies on the formulation and execution of operational strategies. I have experience using statistical sampling to draw conclusions. I have experience using other analytical tools to draw conclusions. I have experience in using database applications to store and manipulate data. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the statements that describe your experience gathering and evaluating information and data. Answer to this question is required I have applied analytical and evaluation methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on issues. Examples: (a) Researching and analyzing documents. (b) Gathering, summarizing, and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports. I have tracked and monitored the completion of assignments and prepared reports that document evaluated results. I have conducted analyses, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes and provided recommended solutions and improvements. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 3 Select the statement(s) that describes your experience in providing administrative/clerical support and customer service. Answer to this question is required I have experience providing a full range of administrative/clerical support work for an organization with varied functions. I have experience researching and responding to inquiries concerning projects and activities. I have participated in the development of administrative/clerical procedures for quality improvement within an organization. I have experience providing effective customer service including receiving visitors and phone calls. I have experience in scheduling and coordinating the use of conferencing rooms. None of the above 4 Select the statements that describe your experience gathering and evaluating information and data. Answer to this question is required I have applied analytical and evaluation methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues. Examples: (a) Researching and analyzing documents. (b) Compiling and charting statistical data. (c) Gathering, summarizing, and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports. I have tracked and monitored the completion of assignments and prepared reports that document evaluated results. I have conducted analyses, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes and provided recommended solutions and improvements. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statements describe your experience data mining? Answer to this question is required I identified relevant sources of data. I retrieved data from available resources. I cleaned and validated retrieved data (e.g., confirmed accuracy, removed extraneous). I created and ran queries to gather and analyze data. I established relationships among data sets that were not pre-existing. I scaled data from different sources for consistency. I normalized the distribution of data sets. None of the above. 3 Select the responses that describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making logical decisions, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. Independently interpreted and applied statutes and policies to resolve problems and issues. Prepared and presented analytical information. Used analyses to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings, and recommendations. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings. None of the above. 4 Select the response that best describes your skill in written and oral communication, tailoring the message, and in managing the production of written products responding to stakeholders and audiences. Answer to this question is required I have frequently and successfully delivered briefings to a variety of audiences, including senior officials, covering topics that are complicated, highly technical, and/or controversial. My recommendations were accepted by senior officials and implemented. My work involved collaboration with colleagues across my agency and with outside entities, and written products impacted agency-wide decisions. Additionally, I have prepared at least three of the following products: (1) position papers, (2) policy statements and policies, (3) memoranda addressing a variety of issues, and (4) action, operational, or strategic plans. I cite specific examples in my resume. I have successfully delivered briefings to a variety of audiences covering topics that are technical and/or controversial. My recommendations were accepted as credible and implementable. My work involved collaboration across my agency, and written products impacted decisions. Additionally, I have prepared at least two of the following products: (1) position papers, (2) policy statements and policies, (3) memoranda addressing a variety of issues, and (4) action, operational, or strategic plans. I cite specific examples in my resume. I have successfully delivered briefings to a variety of audiences covering topics that are technical. Additionally, I have prepared at least one of the following products: (1) position papers, (2) policy statements and policies, (3) memoranda addressing a variety of issues, and (4) action, operational, or strategic plans. I cite specific examples in my resume. I do not have the above experience. 5 Select the statement that best describes your ability to interpret statistical data to incorporate it into reports for leadership. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have received education or training in interpreting statistical data and preparing reports. I have assisted others to interpret statistical data and compile reports, but I have not been responsible for independently performing the tasks. I have direct experience interpreting statistical data and preparing reports. I have performed the functions independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in interpreting statistical data and preparing reports. I present the reports routinely to management at all levels with little to no assistance from my supervisor. 6 Select the responses that describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making logical decisions, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. Independently interpreted and applied statutes and policies to resolve problems and issues. Prepared and presented analytical information. Used analyses to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings, and recommendations. Developed policies, regulations, procedures, strategies, and/or plans for meeting goals and objectives. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.