Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 3 Rate your experience leading the development, stewardship, and interpretation of a significant museum collection. Answer to this question is required I have no experience. I have assisted others. I have independently managed portions of a collection. I have led major collection initiatives and supervised professional staff. I am recognized as an expert and have led institution-wide or nationally significant collection programs. 4 Rate your experience conducting original research that resulted in publications, exhibitions, or presentations. Answer to this question is required No experience. Assisted with research. Conducted independent research resulting in publications or exhibitions. Directed major research projects and mentored others. Internationally recognized scholar whose work has significantly influenced the field. 5 Rate your experience planning and implementing major exhibitions. Answer to this question is required No experience. Assisted with exhibitions. Independently managed exhibitions. Directed multiple complex exhibitions involving loans, budgets, and interdisciplinary teams. Led nationally or internationally significant exhibitions with broad public impact. 6 Rate your experience supervising professional museum staff. Answer to this question is required None. Served as a team lead Supervised a small professional staff. Supervised multiple professional teams and managed performance and budgets. Directed a large curatorial division and developed organizational strategy. 7 Rate your experience developing partnerships with museums, universities, collectors, or cultural organizations. Answer to this question is required None. Participated in partnerships. Independently established partnerships. Negotiated complex institutional collaborations. Developed strategic national or international partnerships with lasting institutional impact. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.