Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have one year of full-time experience at the GS-14 level that is close or similar to the work of this job? The experience should demonstrate substantial technical, managerial, or operational oversight within a radio, millimeter, or submillimeter observatory. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising multidisciplinary technical teams? Answer to this question is required Led cross-functional engineering teams, including performance management Supervised technical teams in support of project work Mentored staff informally; no direct supervision No experience supervising staff 3 What is your experience managing budgets for scientific or technical programs? Answer to this question is required Managed multi-million-dollar budgets with fiscal accountability Participated in budget development and tracking Assisted with basic financial tracking No experience managing budgets 4 In which of the following technical areas do you have applied experience relevant to radio telescope systems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Receiver systems Antenna mechanics and control systems Cryogenics / cooling systems Systems integration General electronics Mechanical systems None of the above 5 What best describes your ability to communicate complex technical and programmatic information? Answer to this question is required Delivered briefings to executive audiences; authored technical papers Regularly report to leadership on project or technical progress Occasional presenter or contributor to group discussions Limited communication experience View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.