Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Specialized experience is experience managing, supervising, leading or serving as a program expert in human capital management programs and policies and/or human resources services. This experience must include at least two or more of the following areas: Accountability policy development and planning; Compliance audits, reporting, and follow-up; Human Resources Management special studies and reviews; HR program evaluation; Program improvement initiatives; and Program metrics, reporting, and analysis. 1 Do you have one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as stated above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This position has a Selective Placement Factor that requires experience leading and conducting comprehensive HR compliance audits. Do you have experience leading and conducting comprehensive HR compliance audits? In order to receive credit, your resume must support this experience. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).