Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Toggle navigation About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Degree that included 3 semester hours each in the following course areas: History of archeology. Archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa. Regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development. Theory and methods of archeology. Methods include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques. Archeological field school, to provide a basic understanding of theoretical and practical approaches to research design implementation, field preservation techniques, and report preparation by participation in actual field work. AND Six semester hours of related course work in: geography, geology, or cultural geography; history, historiography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing; AND Archeological School. Related Curriculum: degree in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline may be accepted as satisfying in full the educational requirements, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements in A.1 (including archeological field school). Combination of Education and Experience: College-level education or training that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education. Experience: Four years of archeological work experience that demonstrated a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project. I do not possess the education and/or the experience as described above. 2 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Specialized experience is defined as having experience preparing environmental documents or reports (such as Environmental Assessments or Environmental Impact Statements pursuant to NEPA, study plans or reports, or section 106 consultation documents) and experience analyzing archeological, historical, and cultural resource issues. 3 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Which of the following experience(s) do you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have conducted archaeological surveys. I have conducted historical surveys. I have conducted cultural resource field surveys. I have conducted surveys related to infrastructure projects. I do not have this experience. 5 Which of the following experience(s) do you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed a Historic Properties Management Plan. I have implemented the requirements of a Historic Properties Management Plan. I have developed a Programmatic Agreement. I have administered the requirements of Programmatic Agreements. I have developed a Memorandum of Agreement. I do not have this experience. 6 Which response(s) describe(s) your experience implementing section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team implementing section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. I have experience as a member of a team implementing section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. I do not have this experience. 7 Which response(s) describe(s) your experience implementing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team implementing NEPA. I have experience as a member of a team implementing NEPA. I do not have this experience. 8 Which response(s) describe(s) your experience using the National Register of Historic Places (National Register)?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Searching the National Register. Updating property information. Determining eligibility of a district, site, building, structure, and/or object. Citing National Register information in published documents. Managing listed properties. Managing eligible properties. I do not have this experience. 9 Which of the following statute(s) do you have experience implementing? &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Federal Power Act America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 Native American Grave Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 Endangered Species Act of 1973 Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 Clean Water Act Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960 None of the above 10 Select the ways in which you have contributed to the production of written work products. Answer to this question is required I have provided first drafts to others for review. I have reviewed and provided general comments to other’s draft. I have reviewed and provided grammar, spelling, and organization edit to other’s drafts. I have reviewed documents specifically for technical accuracy. I have consolidated reports from others into a final product. I have been responsible for written products from start to finish. None of the above. 11 Which of the following roles have you had in the preparation of environmental documents related to proposals for water-based infrastructure facilities? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have independently prepared National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental assessments. I have independently prepared NEPA environmental impact statements. I have led a team that prepared NEPA environmental impact statements. I have led a team that prepared NEPA environmental assessments. I have participated on a team that prepared NEPA environmental impact statements. I have participated on a team that prepared NEPA environmental assessments. I do not have experience as described above. 12 Which statements describe the type of writing experience you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Writing to explain a complicated issue. Writing to influence the opinion or action of others. Writing to recommend a solution to a problem with supporting documentation and evidence. Writing to summarize the results of research or a project. Writing to describe audit findings and recommendations. I do not have experience as described above. 13 What types of information do you have professional work experience presenting verbally? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Single resource technical reports. The results of multiple resource assessments and investigations. Recommendations for mitigation or enhancement measures. Recommendations for solving complex problems. None of the above. 14 To which of the following groups have you independently presented historic or archaeological information? Answer to this question is required Federal governments State governments Local governments Tribal governments Industry representatives Academic organizations Special interest groups Landowners Members of the public None of the above 15 Which of the following functions have you communicated in the role of a team lead? Answer to this question is required Planned the overall schedule and milestones. Set group expectations. Assigned tasks and responsibilities to project team members. Followed up with team members to assure milestones are met. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Made difficult decisions to move a project forward. I have not performed these functions as a team lead. 16 Select the responses which describe your experience having conversations with others.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my colleagues. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my supervisor. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for a non-technical audience. I have experience providing feedback to my colleagues about their work products. I have experience receiving feedback from my supervisor about my work products. I do not have this experience. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).