Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: &nbsp; Resolving questions and providing accurate legal advice to both attorneys and non-attorneys on complex legal matters; Analyzing facts and legal concerns presented, determining additional facts needed, and applying appropriate legal sources; and Drafting legal documents and performing legal research. 2 For what reasons have you conducted research? Answer to this question is required To gather information to write a report/briefing To make a recommendation on a legal matter To answer a specific question that was asked To prepare for a meeting / event where others were going to ask me questions To assess the merits of claim None of the above 3 In which situations have you provided your legal subject matter expertise on an independent basis? Answer to this question is required Employment law matters (i.e., removals and suspensions related to conduct and performance, administrative hearings, Federal court litigation, EEO, civil rights) Labor law matters (i.e., working on arbitrations, grievances, unfair labor practices, information requests) Legal research and writing (i.e., drafting legal memoranda, motions, pleadings, briefs, legislation, discovery documents after conducting appropriate research) Processing and responding to discovery requests, including e-discovery (i.e., preparing affidavits, interrogatories, admissions, court exhibits, objections; Bates stamping; producing discovery documents) Advising on tort and liability issues Advising on occupational, health and workplace safety law Conducting interviews with investigative sources and prospective witnesses Preparing witnesses for depositions and legal proceedings None of the above Grade: 14 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience:&nbsp; Providing guidance on complex legal issues for large organizations or firms pertaining to Employment or Labor Law; Resolving questions and providing accurate legal advice to both attorneys and non-attorneys on complex legal matters; Analyzing facts and legal concerns presented, determining additional facts needed, and applying appropriate legal sources; and Drafting legal documents and performing legal research . &nbsp; 2 In which situations have you influenced or negotiated with others? Answer to this question is required Persuading a client to not terminate a contract due to the associated risks Presenting an oral argument before a panel of administrative hearing judges, opposing counsel, a mediator, or an arbitrator Negotiating a settlement agreement for a claim (e.g., contract, employment, environmental, or tort) Persuading a colleague to adopt your interpretation of a law due to your past experience None of the above 3 Select the work activities you have performed on the job involving problem solving. Answer to this question is required Performed a review and analysis of situations or problems taking into account particular priorities and sensitivities Analyzed issues and factors that were largely undefined and that required extensive review in order to determine the nature, sensitivity and scope of subject areas Developed or created solutions that represented a significant departure from previous approaches or techniques None of the above 4 Have you reviewed others' legal research findings for applicability to a situation and thoroughness? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 15 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience:&nbsp; Providing guidance on complex legal issues for large organizations or firms pertaining to Employment or Labor Law; Providing legal opinions on employment law legislation; Resolving questions and providing accurate legal advice to both attorneys and non-attorneys on complex legal matters; Analyzing facts and legal concerns presented, determining additional facts needed, and applying appropriate legal sources; and Drafting legal documents and performing legal research . &nbsp; &nbsp; 2 In which situations have you provided your legal subject matter expertise? Answer to this question is required Employment discrimination cases (e.g., hiring, promotion) Employment termination or dismissal cases Employment disciplinary action cases None of the above 3 Have you participated in mediation activities for an employment claim? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a J.D. degree from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently an active member of the bar, in good standing, of a State, a territory of the United States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 How have you exhibited confidence and professional diplomacy while effectively relating to people at all levels both internally and externally? Answer to this question is required Demonstrating an understanding of the interrelationships, roles and responsibilities of your organization. Developing and maintaining professional relationships. Using knowledge of the organizational culture in making decisions and perceives the impact and implications of such decisions. Identifying when issues need to be escalated to higher authorities and effectively alerts appropriate officials. Demonstrating sensitivity to surroundings and acts accordingly in conversations. Perceiving organizational and political sensitivities and acts accordingly. Understanding the political environment, management priorities, staff roles and responsibilities, and grasps external factors impacting the organization. Ensuring positive outcomes and mission achievement. Understanding corporate priorities, cultural norms and unwritten rules for success. None of the above. 4 Choose the oral communication tasks you have performed at work. Answer to this question is required Provided advice, guidance and direction to staff and attorneys on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Provided briefings to executives. Provided informational presentations to co-workers. Provided non-technical instructions to others (e.g., subordinates, new hires). None of the above. 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting laws/regulations and developing original legal rationale on issues? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task for issues where there were determinable facts and clearly applicable precedents and relied on the guidance of a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task for issues where there were determinable facts and clearly applicable precedents and only infrequently relied on the guidance of a supervisor or senior employees. I have reviewed, mentored, or supervised others as they performed this task by providing immediate feedback and ongoing guidance. 6 How many employment law cases have you litigated? Answer to this question is required None 1 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 More than 30 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience involving negotiation. Answer to this question is required Negotiated an agreement or compromise with a co-worker. Negotiated an agreement or compromise with my supervisor / manager. Negotiated an agreement or compromise with a familiar customer or client. Negotiated an agreement or compromise with a new customer or client. Negotiated contracts or other business agreements. Negotiated an agreement or compromise with a government official. None of the above. 8 Have you facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which activities have you performed in a professional setting related to laws and statutes? Answer to this question is required I have explained laws and regulations to clients and colleagues. I have compared case facts to laws and regulations in developing a case. I have provided technical assistance to external organizations (e.g., other Federal Agencies, citizens) regarding compliance with laws and regulations. I have monitored case law (e.g., circuit courts) for changing interpretations of laws. None of the above. 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.