Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this job: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience (as described under the Qualifications section of this announcement) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. I do not meet the experience requirements. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 5 In which of the following roles do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Contract Official`s Representative (COR) Program or project manager for a major acquisition Contracting specialist Contracting officer Cost analyst Procurement specialist Purchase card holder Procurement agents in private industry Private sector experience providing government services None of the above 6 I have experience designing and/or conducting analytical evaluations of: Answer to this question is required Program systems using System Analysis Techniques Contract Administration / Management systems Terms & Conditions Service Level Agreements (SLA) Office Level Agreements (OLA) Work processes Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Standard Operating Environment (SOE) Common Operating Enviornment (COE) Resources utilization Records management Contract Management Inventory Assessments IT Asset Management None of the above 7 I have developed cost estimates and provided budgetary and financial plan input for costs associated with the procurement and disposal of the following: Answer to this question is required Furniture Equipment Supplies Telecommunication equipment / services Unclassified records / documents Classified records / documents None of the above 8 From the following list, please indicate which of the following system(s) you have experience working with: Answer to this question is required E-2 Travel Solutions Ariba Spend Management - Buyer 8.2 Integrated Logistics Management System (ILMS) Microsoft SharePoint None of the above 9 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed that demonstrate your knowledge of administrative laws, rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Made travel arrangements. Prepared travel orders. Applied security procedures / protocols (e.g., storage of classified information, use of classified systems or equipment). Developed or implemented evacuation policies, procedures and/or guidelines. Developed or implemented emergency preparedness guidelines. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 11 From the following list, indicate the types of customers that you communicate with on a day-to-day basis in providing support services: Answer to this question is required Senior level agency officials Non government officials Government officials Vendors Customers internal to the organization Customers external to the organization None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this job: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described under the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. I do not meet the experience requirements. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 5 In which of the following roles do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Contract Official`s Representative (COR) Program or project manager for a major acquisition Contracting specialist Contracting officer Cost analyst Procurement specialist Purchase card holder Procurement agents in private industry Private sector experience providing government services None of the above 6 From the following list, indicate the types of customers that you communicate with on a day-to-day basis in providing support services: Answer to this question is required Senior level agency officials Non government officials Government officials Vendors Customers internal to the organization Customers external to the organization None of the above 7 From the following list, please indicate which of the following system(s) you have experience working with: Answer to this question is required E-2 Travel Solutions Ariba Spend Management - Buyer 8.2 Integrated Logistics Management System (ILMS) Microsoft SharePoint None of the above 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting space management surveys to determine appropriate allotment and most efficient utilization of space? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 9 I have experience designing and/or conducting analytical evaluations of: Answer to this question is required Program systems using System Analysis Techniques Contract Administration / Management systems Terms & Conditions Service Level Agreements (SLA) Office Level Agreements (OLA) Work processes Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Standard Operating Environment (SOE) Common Operating Enviornment (COE) Resources utilization Records management Contract Management Inventory Assessments IT Asset Management None of the above 10 I have developed cost estimates and provided budgetary and financial plan input for costs associated with the procurement and disposal of the following: Answer to this question is required Furniture Equipment Supplies Telecommunication equipment / services Unclassified records / documents Classified records / documents None of the above 11 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 12 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed that demonstrate your knowledge of administrative laws, rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Made travel arrangements. Prepared travel orders. Applied security procedures / protocols (e.g., storage of classified information, use of classified systems or equipment). Developed or implemented evacuation policies, procedures and/or guidelines. Developed or implemented emergency preparedness guidelines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.