Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles, and/or practices of environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. This includes knowledge of the history, trends, and evolving status of air pollution policy, federal programs, statutes, such as the Clean Air Act, and interrelationships with other key disciplines, such as physical sciences, economics and/or policy decision making. Answer to this question is required Recognized by decision-makers as a professional resource in environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. For example, served as an agency representative on an inter-agency task force developing policies in environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, published several articles in peer-reviewed professional journals on environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, worked as a journalist primarily on environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, for a major newspaper or trade publication relied on by professionals in the field, served as a lobbyist on environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources; or equivalent experience. Have broad knowledge of environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, and pertinent public policy issues. For example, administered Federal or State laws or regulations directly related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, conducted original research and analysis used by managers or policy-makers in the public or private sector, taught environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, in a full-time position in a college or university; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, including pertinent public policy issues. For example, independently conducted research related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, in a work setting, published research as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional journal on environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources; completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, combined with some applied experience related to a public policy issue in environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources; or equivalent experience. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to analyze public policy issues.** Ability to apply knowledge of environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, to analysis. Conceptualized and defined public policy problems, analyzed and synthesized information and research, identified implications of data and drew appropriate conclusions, generated and assessed alternatives, and evaluated the consequences of choosing each alternative; designed and utilized pertinent quantitative and/or qualitative research and analytical methodologies and techniques; presented the big picture of the public policy issue.Including 1) identifying emerging issues, 2) evaluating legislative proposals, 3) evaluating budget/appropriations, 4) assessing public and private implications of government programs or regulations, 5) assessing alternative approaches to public policy issues, and 6) evaluating governmental organization and administrative procedures to accomplish program goals. Answer to this question is required Frequently performed at least four of the above examples in conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. These issues were of national and/or international significance in the public or private sectors. This required expert knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the advanced application of a wide range of established analytic techniques and methods. For example, served as a mid-level policy analyst (or equivalent) for a government agency, corporation, think tank, or congressional committee. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. Occasionally performed at least three of the above examples in conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. These issues were of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. This required expert knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a number of established analytic techniques and methods. For example, served as a consultant (or equivalent) for a government agency, corporation, think tank, or congressional committee. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. Have some experience conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a few established techniques and methods. For example, published advanced graduate-level research findings (or equivalent) and in so doing, performed at least two of the above examples in environmental policy and/or science issues related to environmental remediation. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layperson. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to write in a public policy context.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on public policy issues related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: decision memos, research analyses, briefing papers, analyses of options, evaluation of legislative proposals, and articles covering a complex public policy issue published in a major national or trade publication. Answer to this question is required Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, and included most of the examples described above. Have some experience writing a variety of analytical products on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources, and included some of the examples described above. Wrote at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review, such as a research study for a professional society or think tank, for a manager in the public or private sector, or for a graduate-level degree. This product was related environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to convey analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to environmental policy and/or science issues related to air pollution, including emissions from mobile sources. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Frequently presented analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings included those that were unstructured. Examples include explaining agency or corporate programs to audiences with various levels of knowledge of the issue; briefing and responding to questions from policy-makers; teaching a public policy course; or equivalent experience. Frequently presented analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include making presentations to management officials on policy options; serving as a guest lecturer on public policy issues in an academic setting; or equivalent experience. Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops; serving as a teaching assistant in a public policy graduate program; or equivalent experience. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).