Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of social policies and analytical approaches for examining social policies** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of social policy and policy analysis as applied to varied social issues and federal programs. This includes knowledge of the history, trends, and current status of issues related to the following topics: (1) the effectiveness of social programs and benefits in contributing to improved health and economic well-being; (2) the alignment between central aims of federal programs and procedures for allocating funding; and (3) the complementarity and interplay between federal and nonfederal social programs. Answer to this question is required Have extensive knowledge of social policies and programs, and analytical approaches for examining pertinent social policy issues. For example, independently conducted research in a work setting related to social policy, published research as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional journal on social policy; completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in social policy, social science research methods, or a related field with some applied experience related to a public policy issue in social; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of social policies and programs, and analytical approaches for examining social policy issues. For example, completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in social policy, economics, public policy, or related discipline, assisted with research in social in a work setting, served as a contributing author to published research in a peer-reviewed professional journal on social policy, or equivalent work experience. Have knowledge of social policies and programs, and analytical approaches for examining social policy issues. For example, completed master’s or equivalent academic program, served as a research assistant in the public or private sector, or equivalent work experience in social policy. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze public policy issues** Applied knowledge of policy analysis methods and techniques to the analysis of social policies and programs or other public policy issues. Clarified policy questions, summarized alternatives, and defined their impact. Examples include: (1) identifying emerging issues, (2) evaluating legislative proposals, (3) evaluating budget/appropriations, (4) assessing public and private implications of government programs or regulations, (5) assessing alternative approaches to public policy issues, and (6) evaluating governmental organization and administrative procedures to accomplish program goals. Answer to this question is required Have experience conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. For example, have published graduate-level research findings and in so doing, performed at least two of the above examples in the study of social policy. Have conducted analysis on a public policy issue related to social policy. For example, completed research studies or projects, equivalent to a doctoral dissertation, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. Have conducted analysis on a public policy issue related to social policy. For example, completed research studies or projects, equivalent to a master’s thesis, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to write in a public policy context** Wrote a variety of descriptive, background, and analytical reports, memoranda, and other documents on social or other public policies or policy-related issues. Answer to this question is required Prepared at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review, such as a research study for a professional society or think tank, for a manager in the public or private sector, or for an academic degree. This product was related to the study and analysis of social or other public policies or programs. Frequently wrote background or descriptive reports on public policy issues, such as papers for seminars or briefing materials for other professionals or managers. Wrote descriptive or background material in an academic or office context for the purpose of clarifying situations or issues, that was not disseminated to a broader audience. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to design and utilize research and analytical methods and techniques** Designed and utilized research and analytical methodologies and techniques pertinent to studying social policies or other public policies or programs. Applied these methodologies and techniques to the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation of complex public policy issues. Answer to this question is required Routinely conceptualized research approaches and frameworks for the analysis of highly complex public policy issues related to studying social policies or other public policies or programs. Identified methods and designed and implemented qualitative and/or quantitative research efforts relevant to studying social policies or other public policies or programs. This required expert knowledge of variables and their interrelationships; of the identification, selection, and evaluation of data; and of analytical options. The research involved innovative applications of cutting-edge, multidisciplinary techniques and methods. Interpreted results of research for use by senior-level audiences ranging from expert to layman. Routinely designed and implemented qualitative and/or quantitative research efforts related to studying social policies or other public policies or programs. This required extensive knowledge of variables and their interrelationships; of the identification, selection, and evaluation of data; and of analytical options. This research involved the innovative application of a wide range of established multidisciplinary analytical techniques and methods. Interpreted results of research for use by senior-level audiences ranging from expert to layman. Frequently participated in the design and implemented qualitative and/or quantitative research efforts related to studying social policies or other public policies or programs. This required expert knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the advanced application of a wide range of established analytical techniques and methods. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layman. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).