Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [72964] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that qualifies you for this GS-05 position. Answer to this question is required I completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor`s degree. 2.1 [72898] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education and/or experience has prepared you for this position Maximum length of 3500 characters. &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; I possess at least three years of general experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least GS-04 in the federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. 2.1 [72898] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education and/or experience has prepared you for this position Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess a combination of post high-school education and experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. 2.1 [72898] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe how your education and/or experience has prepared you for this position Maximum length of 3500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [62867] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions. You must provide supporting documentation. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college with at least one program accredited by ABET; or which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials (stress-strain relationships), fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), or any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including courses specified in response Choice 1. I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in engineering technology or another appropriate field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I have not received a qualifying bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 07 1 [338] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [62867] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions. You must provide supporting documentation. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college with at least one program accredited by ABET; or which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials (stress-strain relationships), fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), or any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including courses specified in response Choice 1. I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in engineering technology or another appropriate field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. 2.1 [62863] Please provide&nbsp;the dates that support your response. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have not received a qualifying bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [72980] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this General Engineer - GS-0801-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level experience participating in discussions and meetings relative to engineering assignments AND experience assisting in the application of engineering principles, procedures, processes, regulations, and reference materials. This experience is well described in my application. 3.1 [72987] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience applying engineering concepts, principles, or methods to analyze or solve technical problems. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72988] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience analyzing technical data to support safety, compliance, engineering evaluations, or similar assessments. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [72989] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience writing or presenting technical information related to engineering. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 3.1 [72978] In 500 words or less, please explain what knowledge and skills are required in engineering to understand the guidelines, regulations, and procedures associated with pipeline safety, and how can one make appropriate decisions in this context. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72986] In 500 words or less, please explain what education you obtained for understanding pipeline safety regulations, and how can assignments be designed to provide experience in conducting safety oversight inspections to improve compliance with Federal standards in a rapidly evolving industry. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [72957] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how one can ensure that maintenance and repair schedules for existing facilities conform to safety requirements while assisting in field surveys. Maximum length of 8000 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 [72987] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience applying engineering concepts, principles, or methods to analyze or solve technical problems. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72988] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience analyzing technical data to support safety, compliance, engineering evaluations, or similar assessments. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [72989] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience writing or presenting technical information related to engineering. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.4 [72978] In 500 words or less, please explain what knowledge and skills are required in engineering to understand the guidelines, regulations, and procedures associated with pipeline safety, and how can one make appropriate decisions in this context. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.5 [72986] In 500 words or less, please explain what education you obtained for understanding pipeline safety regulations, and how can assignments be designed to provide experience in conducting safety oversight inspections to improve compliance with Federal standards in a rapidly evolving industry. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.6 [72957] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how one can ensure that maintenance and repair schedules for existing facilities conform to safety requirements while assisting in field surveys. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. 3.1 [72978] In 500 words or less, please explain what knowledge and skills are required in engineering to understand the guidelines, regulations, and procedures associated with pipeline safety, and how can one make appropriate decisions in this context. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72986] In 500 words or less, please explain what education you obtained for understanding pipeline safety regulations, and how can assignments be designed to provide experience in conducting safety oversight inspections to improve compliance with Federal standards in a rapidly evolving industry. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [72957] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how one can ensure that maintenance and repair schedules for existing facilities conform to safety requirements while assisting in field surveys. Maximum length of 8000 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 09 1 [30209] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [62867] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions. You must provide supporting documentation. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college with at least one program accredited by ABET; or which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials (stress-strain relationships), fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), or any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including courses specified in response Choice 1. I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in engineering technology or another appropriate field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. 2.1 [62863] Please provide&nbsp;the dates that support your response. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have not received a qualifying bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [72954] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this General Engineer - GS-0801-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. 3.1 [72987] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience applying engineering concepts, principles, or methods to analyze or solve technical problems. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72988] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience analyzing technical data to support safety, compliance, engineering evaluations, or similar assessments. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [72989] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience writing or presenting technical information related to engineering. Maximum length of 3500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 3.1 [72976] In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you for field surveys to ensure maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements while also evaluating projects for compliance with existing Federal safety regulations. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72959] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education prepared you for coordinating assignments with colleagues and supervisors to assure that compliance citations or advice is consistent with established policy. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 3.3 [72960] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education support making field surveys of existing facilities to ensure that maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements. Maximum length of 8000 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 [72976] In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you for field surveys to ensure maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements while also evaluating projects for compliance with existing Federal safety regulations. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72959] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education prepared you for coordinating assignments with colleagues and supervisors to assure that compliance citations or advice is consistent with established policy. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 3.3 [72960] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education support making field surveys of existing facilities to ensure that maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 3.4 [72987] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience applying engineering concepts, principles, or methods to analyze or solve technical problems. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.5 [72988] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience analyzing technical data to support safety, compliance, engineering evaluations, or similar assessments. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.6 [72989] In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience writing or presenting technical information related to engineering. Maximum length of 3500 characters. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. 3.1 [72976] In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you for field surveys to ensure maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements while also evaluating projects for compliance with existing Federal safety regulations. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [72959] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education prepared you for coordinating assignments with colleagues and supervisors to assure that compliance citations or advice is consistent with established policy. Maximum length of 8000 characters. 3.3 [72960] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how has your education support making field surveys of existing facilities to ensure that maintenance and repair schedules conform to safety requirements. Maximum length of 8000 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 6 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 12 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 12.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 12.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 12.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).