Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the activities you have independently performed in a financial management system. Answer to this question is required Generate standard data reports Create customized data reports Reconciled accounts from multiple systems and/or processed transactions Audited/verified the accuracy of data Formatted information for printing/dissemination None of the above 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., planning, programming, scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the statement&nbsp;that best describes your ability to analyze issues or errors within financial processes, controls, or information and recommend/implement solutions. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have received education or training in analyzing issues or errors within financial processes, controls, or information and recommending/implementing solutions. I have assisted others in analyzing issues or errors within financial processes, controls, or information, but I have not been responsible for independently recommending/implementing solutions. I have direct experience analyzing issues or errors within financial processes, controls, or information as a regular part of a job and recommending/implementing solutions. I have performed the functions independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in analyzing issues or errors within financial processes, controls, or information and identifying/implementing solutions. I have supervised performance of this task, or am normally the person consulted to assist with or train this task because of my expertise. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., planning, programming, scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience in performing budget work in one or more phases of the budget process. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Provided analytical services to support the formulation, justification, presentation, and execution stages of the budget process for a substantial segment of the organization's budget. Analyzed a wide range of past and present financial data. Reviewed requests for funding and proposed staffing levels in relation to current obligations and expenditures. Assessed the impact of budget changes and spending on salaries, contracts, travel, benefits, and related expenses of the organization's budget. None of the above 2 Select the statement that best describes your experience executing, monitoring, and controlling budgets. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this function. I have received education or training in budget execution and internal control methods but have not performed this function on the job. I have performed support work and assisted with analyses related to executing, monitoring, and controlling budgets, but I have not been responsible for monitoring, controlling or initiating adjustments to the overall budget of an organization. I have monitored, controlled and recommended adjustments to operating budgets for programs or organizations with essentially one source of funding, e.g., appropriated funds, fees for products or services, or similar non-appropriated fund sources. I have monitored, controlled and recommended adjustments to operating budgets for programs or organizations whose fund sources and control processes were mixed and complex, i.e., having several of the following conditions: appropriated funds, revolving funds, trust funds, fees for services, working capital funds, non-appropriated and/or grant funds, fund sources governed by different fiscal years, accounting systems, reporting and control systems. 3 Select the statement(s) that describe your responsibilities or oversight as the principle advisor on budgetary matters. Answer to this question is required Appeals on budget decisions Budget guidance development Program financial performance reviews Apportionments Budget planning preparation Budget trend analyses Impact analyses from alternative level of funding Monthly/quarterly financial reports integration Program performance progress report preparation Performance or participation in budget execution activities Responses to budget inquiries Providing budget advice to program offices Review of budget and program data to determine additional funding needs or need to reprogram funds None of the above 4 Select the financial management function(s) you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have provided functional and/or technical expertise and direction for financial management systems. I have planned, coordinated, and conducted financial reviews of large scale local, state, Federal or private organizations. I have identified and applied creative accounting/financial management techniques and methods to resolve financial problems involving two or more organizational entities. I have consolidated findings of financial reviews, made recommendations to correct deficiencies, presented recommendations to senior staff, and monitored the implementation of corrective actions to improve deficiencies. None of the above. 5 Select the responses that describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making logical decisions, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. Independently interpreted and applied statutes and regulations to resolve problems and issues. Prepared and presented analytical information. Used analyses to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings, and recommendations. Developed policies, regulations, procedures, and plans for meeting goals and objectives. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings. None of the above. 6 Select the statements that describe your experience gathering and evaluating information and data. Answer to this question is required I have applied analytical and evaluation methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues. Examples: (a) Researching and analyzing documents. (b) Compiling and charting statistical data. (c) Gathering, summarizing, and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports. I have tracked and monitored the completion of assignments and prepared reports that evaluated results and documented trends. I have conducted analysis, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes and provided recommended solutions and improvements. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 7 Select the statement(s) that describe your abilities and experience in leadership and organizational skills. Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated the ability to develop and implement an organizational vision that integrates key agency and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors to outside stakeholder groups. I have demonstrated the ability to apply management concepts of accountability and continuous improvement, including the ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results. I have demonstrated the ability to explain, advocate, and express facts and ideas in a convincing manner and to negotiate and produce results with individuals and groups internally and externally. I have demonstrated the ability to develop an expansive professional network with internal and external stakeholder groups. I have demonstrated the ability to facilitate organizational meetings, seminars and workshops with internal and external stakeholder groups. None of the above. 8 Select the types of problems you have resolved at work. Answer to this question is required Request or task assignments were unclear Short notice was provided on priority assignments Individuals responsible for providing critical information were unavailable Task requirements changed mid-stream Immediate suspense dates on emergency budget requests None of the above 9 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 10 What written formats have you used to convey information and instructions when preparing financial documents? Answer to this question is required Drafted, edited, revised, or reviewed documents justifying your position on budget or program initiatives. Wrote policies, guidelines, and procedures regarding budgetary information and business operations. Prepared cost reports, budget reports, payment policies for reporting financial data and program evaluation. Created financial reports, spreadsheets, and charts that contained relevant budget and business performance data. None of the above. 11 Select one choice that best describes your presentation experience. Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from Agency, Department, other Federal agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 12 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Writing reports or findings regarding investigation reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Writing trade or professional association publication articles. Writing graduate level or professional school thesis, practicum, or dissertation (or equivalent). None of the above 13 Please select the computer software applications you have used in an office environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable Adobe Photoshop Sharepoint None of the above 14 Select all of the statements that describe your experience utilizing automated systems.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed spreadsheets/charts using Microsoft Excel software or similar software. I have used a software or electronic database to research information relative to a project or assignment. I have prepared written documents or reports for supervisor review. I have performed various basic duties and data entry using Microsoft systems and/or software. I have entered data and information using electronic systems and/or applications. None of the above. 15 Do you have experience of using Microsoft Tabular modeling? &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 &nbsp; Have you created or worked on Zero Based Budget (ZBB) request justifications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.