Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 You must have the ability to do the work without more than normal supervision and demonstrate this level of experience in your resume. 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting technical drawings of electromotive equipment or components. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting technical drawings. I have completed education or training related to the interpretation of technical drawings, but have not applied this knowledge on-the-job. I have interpreted technical drawings related to a single electromotive component. I have interpreted technical drawings related to multiple, interrelated electromotive components or equipment. Grade: 11 You must have the ability to do the work without more than normal supervision and demonstrate this level of experience in your resume. 1 Have you performed visual inspections of subway tracks to identify surface defects or debris as part of troubleshooting efforts? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility maintaining and repairing electromechanical equipment? Answer to this question is required I have independently maintained or repaired electromechanical equipment. I have maintained or repaired electromechanical equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in maintaining or repairing electromechanical equipment. I have completed training or education in maintaining or repairing electromechanical equipment. I have not maintained or repaired electromechanical equipment. 4 Have you been an in-house subject matter expert that others relied on to assist with complex electromotive equipment malfunctions? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 I have independently performed the following duties and/or I am consulted by other employees regarding difficult situations. Answer to this question is required Determined the cause of malfunctions and made repairs to heavy mobile/weight handling equipment. Ensured that correct methods, procedures, processes, tools, test equipment, and specifications were used and followed. Inspected heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and associated components for conformance to work orders, quality, and other technical and performance requirements. Maintained, repaired, overhauled, and modified heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and systems. Used test procedures and equipment to trace and repair hard-to-locate problems. Prepared, maintained, and audited maintenance and test records to establish scope of repairs for heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and associated components. My experience does not match any of the statements above. 6 Which tasks have you performed to maintain electromechanical automation systems? Answer to this question is required Repaired variable frequency drives Replaced electric motors Wired 3-phase motors Troubleshoot, trace and repair electrical circuits Use multi meters to test electric components None of the above 7 Please select tools you have used to repair electromotive components Answer to this question is required Dial indicator Lathes Drill presses Grinders Welding equipment Milling machine Megger Multi-meters None of the above 8 Which components have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required Electrical relays AC/DC Motors Belts Pneumatic valves Wheels and bearings Compressors Pressure switches None of the above 9 Which actions have you taken with electromotive component parts? Answer to this question is required Aligning component parts Fitting component parts Assembling component parts None of the above 10 Which statements describe your experience working with electromotive equipment? Answer to this question is required I differentiated between an AC and DC voltage source. I explain the operation of electrical and mechanical devices to less senior employees. Worked with reactive components (i.e., capacitors, relays and resistors) in DC circuits. I have identified various types of voltage sources and electromechanical components. None of the above. 11 Which electromotive equipment systems do you have experience troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Pneumatic Mechanical Electrical None of the above 12 Which types of train/subway issues have you troubleshot? Answer to this question is required A train/subway car was not moving at its full speed A door failed to open Block brake faults An unscheduled door opening None of the above 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting issues at work? Answer to this question is required I have conveyed information about an issue that I saw to a higher graded employee to troubleshoot and correct it. While observing a higher graded employee troubleshoot an issue, I provided recommendations on how to correct the issue. I used a digital multimeter to identify what a malfunction was and informed a higher graded employee to troubleshoot and correct it. I used a digital multimeter to identify what a malfunction was and personally took actions to correct it. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.