Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as a minimum of three of the following: Demonstrated experience networking with representatives from educational and professional programs to establish long-term partnerships; Experience advising on internal and external communications for a major organization; Experience liaising with community partners such as vocational schools, trade organizations, universities, community colleges, and/or local, state, and federal agencies; Demonstrated experience developing and executing marketing initiatives and creating promotional materials across a variety of mediums, especially for learning and/or employee programs; Experience developing and creating original marketing materials for a variety of print, web-based, and audio-visual outlets; 2 To what extent do you have experience supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization? Answer to this question is required I consider myself as an expert in supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I consider myself skilled in supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I have some experience in supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I am knowledgeable in supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I do not have experience in supporting the planning, initiating, and developing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. 3 To what extent do you have experience assisting in efforts with networking, conducting outreach, and building partnerships with external learning entities or organizations? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 4 With which of the following entities do you have firsthand experience helping with networking and/or building partnerships? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Professional organizations Non-profit organizations Colleges and universities Trade or vocational schools Local, state, or federal agencies Training vendors None of the above 5 Which of the following methods have you utilized to help establish collaborative partnerships or working agreements? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Interagency Agreements Statements of Work Documents Sole Source Justifications Memorandums of Agreement and/or Memorandums of Understanding Blanket Purchase Agreements Terms of Service Agreements and/or Contracts Other None of the above 6 Which of the following describes your experience assisting with knowledge management practices or supporting the transfer of knowledge and retention of institutional memory? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as a minimum of four of the following: Demonstrated experience networking with representatives from educational and professional programs to establish long-term partnerships; Demonstrated experience advising on internal and external communications for a major organization; Experience liaising with community partners such as vocational schools, trade organizations, universities, community colleges, and/or local, state, and federal agencies; Demonstrated experience developing and executing marketing initiatives and creating promotional materials across a variety of mediums, especially for learning and/or employee programs; Demonstrated experience developing and creating original marketing materials for a variety of print, web-based, and audio-visual outlets; Experience assessing marketing needs and selecting the best methods of communication internally and externally. 2 To what extent do you have experience with planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization? Answer to this question is required I consider myself as an expert in planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I consider myself skilled in planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I have some experience in planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I am knowledgeable in planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. I do not have experience in planning, initiating, and executing learning and/or employee development communications for an organization. 3 To what extent do you have experience networking, conducting outreach, and building partnerships with external learning entities or organizations ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 4 With w hich of the following entities do you have firsthand experience networking and/ or building partnerships ? ( Select all that apply.) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Professional organizations Non-profit organizations Colleges and universities Trade or vocational schools Local, state, or federal agencies Training vendors None of the above 5 Which of the following methods have you utilized to establish collaborative partnerships or working agreements ? ( Select all that apply.) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Interagency Agreements Statements of Work Documents Sole Source Justifications Memorandums of Agreement and/or Memorandums of Understanding Blanket Purchase Agreements Terms of Service Agreements and/or Contracts Other None of the above 6 Which of the following describes your experience with establishing knowledge management practices or s upport ing the transfer of knowledge and retention of institutional memory ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. Grade: All Grades 1 To what extent do you have experience with designing and creating original marketing materials for learning and/or employee development programs (e.g., fliers, videos, websites, infographics, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 2 Which of the following describes your experience in the development or support of training and development programs or initiatives? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 3 Which of the following describes your experience tailoring communication strategies, products , or methods to meet the needs of a particular audience , such as an external organization, an educational institution, o r a group within your organization ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 4 With w hich of the following tools do you have experience to support project work (e.g., project management, marketing materials development , collaborative efforts ) ? ( Select all that apply.) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Visual design tools Project management software E-mail marketing software Analytics tools Survey tools Communication and collaboration tools Word processing software Spreadsheet programs None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.