Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 To qualify, applicants must meet the certification, experience, and educational requirements listed in (A) and (B) below. Applicants may also qualify for this position if they meet the exception requirements described in (C) or the Waiver requirements listed in (D) below. Qualification Requirements: (A) Possession of required certification (refer to vacancy announcement for acceptable certifications) and at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the GS-12 level in Federal service, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position. AND (B ) A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (C) Exception: Federal employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000 and meet the specialized experience requirements. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade, unless granted a waiver under Paragraph D. (D) Waiver: The senior procurement executive of the selecting agency may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B and certify that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. Specialized experience is having a comprehensive knowledge of Federal contracting and acquisition programs and experience in the procurement and contract administration of large, highly complex construction, facilities management, professional services, Architecture/Engineering (A/E) services, construction management services, and other types of projects, with the ability to apply advanced contracting concepts methodologies to manage and oversee various construction, small purchases and/or services. This experience must include performing the full range of pre-award, award, and post-award procurement actions and leading diverse teams in the accomplishing the following: Performing the full range of highly complex pre-award and post-award activities on various contract types such as fixed price, fixed price economic price adjustment, various cost type contracts, requirements contracts; performance based acquisitions, and multiple award schedules; Performing delivery/task order placement and administration against multiple award contracts and blanket purchase agreements; Defending pre-award and/or post-award protests, contract claims, and contract disputes; Leading or working as part of an integrated acquisition and procurement project teams; Analyzing difficult contracting issues to identify alternative courses of action. 1 Please select one of the choices below that accurately describes the basis on which you qualify: Answer to this question is required I meet all of the following: (a) four years of contracting experience, including one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level as defined above; (b) possession of required certification (refer to vacancy announcement for acceptable certifications); and (c) completion of a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, including or supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in the academic fields described above. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service as defined above and I meet the exception requirement. I have been granted a waiver from GSA. I feel I have relevant experience/and or education and am a good candidate for a waiver. None of the above. 2 Your response to this question provides information on what basis, if any, you may require consideration for a waiver. Please select the choice(s) below that describe the basis for your request for a waiver: Answer to this question is required I do not meet the specialized experience requirements. I do not meet the education requirements. I do not meet the certification requirements. None of the above. 3 I understand that if I do not submit all of the required documentation necessary to confirm that I have met all of the training and education requirements for this position, my application will be marked as incomplete and I will not be considered for this position. This documentation includes proof of contracting certification. I will also submit transcripts showing completion of a 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, including or supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in the academic fields described above. I understand that I may not currently possess all of the documentation stated above if I am applying as a waiver eligible. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-13 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-12 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 5 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-13 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-13 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-13 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).