Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the tasks you have performed in preparing information for reports. Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Extracted data from various sources for inclusion in reports Organized / consolidated data for inclusion in reports Review / proofread data contained in reports to ensure accuracy Verified data in reports Prepared a variety of reports of a routine / general nature None of the above. 4 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation/ graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical/ quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Desktop publishing None of the above 5 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 6 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison to high level government and nongovernment officials. None of the above 7 Please select from the following list the response that BEST describes your highest level of experience providing human resources advice and assistance and being viewed as an HR consultant and strategic partner in resolving key management problems: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve unique or complex human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership with management. This includes exploring unique or untried solutions and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve human resources issues. Upon request from management, I provide consultation and advice that includes exploring unique or untried solutions. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising or participating in meetings with middle management, either individually or in groups, to address HR issues or problems. None of the above. 8 Which of the following human resources specialty areas do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Placement Labor Relations Employee Relations Human Resources Development Performance Management Classification Compensation Military Information Systems Employee Benefits Senior Executive Service (SES) Political Appointees None of the above 9 Select from the following that describes your background and experience in the area of recruitment and placement: Answer to this question is required I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in both the competitive and excepted service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the competitive service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the excepted service. I have conducted job analysis on a wide variety of complex positions using research, interview, observation, and analytical techniques to gather, document, and analyze information to develop qualification standards. I have administered an organization`s special emphasis programs such as upward mobility, career intern, veterans` employment, persons with disabilities, and displaced employee, and advised management on special emphasis placement opportunities. I have determined appropriate selective factors and developed crediting plans to assess levels of competency possession. I have performed external recruitment by developing multiple recruitment strategies to attract scientists, engineers, and researchers to my organization. I have exercised delegated examining (DE) authority. I have collaborated with management in building comprehensive staffing plans and strategies. I have worked with management in the development of assessment questions for an automated HR application system. None of the above 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written or assisted in writing in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material None of the above 11 From the list below select the answer choices that BEST demonstrates your ability to work independently in meeting deadlines and managing priorities: Answer to this question is required Work independently in establishing priorities. Manage time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handle heavy workload while working within tight deadlines. Ensure tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapt behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organize work, determine resource requirements, and assess progress. Ensure program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above. 12 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the tasks you have performed in preparing information for reports. Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Extracted data from various sources for inclusion in reports Organized / consolidated data for inclusion in reports Review / proofread data contained in reports to ensure accuracy Verified data in reports Prepared a variety of reports of a routine / general nature None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. 5 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison to high level government and nongovernment officials. None of the above 6 Please select from the following list the response that BEST describes your highest level of experience providing human resources advice and assistance and being viewed as an HR consultant and strategic partner in resolving key management problems: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve unique or complex human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership with management. This includes exploring unique or untried solutions and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve human resources issues. Upon request from management, I provide consultation and advice that includes exploring unique or untried solutions. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising or participating in meetings with middle management, either individually or in groups, to address HR issues or problems. None of the above. 7 Which of the following human resources specialty areas do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Placement Labor Relations Employee Relations Human Resources Development Performance Management Classification Compensation Military Information Systems Employee Benefits Senior Executive Service (SES) Political Appointees None of the above 8 Select from the following that describes your background and experience in the area of recruitment and placement: Answer to this question is required I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in both the competitive and excepted service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the competitive service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the excepted service. I have conducted job analysis on a wide variety of complex positions using research, interview, observation, and analytical techniques to gather, document, and analyze information to develop qualification standards. I have administered an organization`s special emphasis programs such as upward mobility, career intern, veterans` employment, persons with disabilities, and displaced employee, and advised management on special emphasis placement opportunities. I have determined appropriate selective factors and developed crediting plans to assess levels of competency possession. I have performed external recruitment by developing multiple recruitment strategies to attract scientists, engineers, and researchers to my organization. I have exercised delegated examining (DE) authority. I have collaborated with management in building comprehensive staffing plans and strategies. I have worked with management in the development of assessment questions for an automated HR application system. None of the above 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written or assisted in writing in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material None of the above 10 From the list below select the answer choices that BEST demonstrates your ability to work independently in meeting deadlines and managing priorities: Answer to this question is required Work independently in establishing priorities. Manage time and resources where numerous shifts in priorities occur. Handle heavy workload while working within tight deadlines. Ensure tasks are completed in timely manner. Adapt behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Organize work, determine resource requirements, and assess progress. Ensure program commitments are met. Set priorities from a complex array of job demands. Set realistic, well defined work goals for subordinate staff. Set realistic deadlines and monitor due dates for action items received in the organization. None of the above. 11 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 12 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation/ graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical/ quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Desktop publishing None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.