Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for archeology positions at this level. Answer to this question is required Degree that included 3 semester hours each in the following course areas: (a) History of archeology, Archeology of a major geographical area such as Africa, Regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; theory and methods of archeology (i.e., typology, classification, and analytical techniques); and Archeological field school to provide a basic understanding of theoretical and practical approaches to research design implementation, field preservation techniques, and report preparation by participation in actual field work AND (b) six semester hours of related course work in geography, geology, or cultural geography; history, historiography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or surveying AND (c) Archeological field school. A degree in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline may be accepted as satisfying in full the educational requirements, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements in answer choice #1 above (including archeological field school). College-level education or training that provided knowledge equivalent to that described in answer choice #1 above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education. Four years of archeological work experience that demonstrated a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project. None of the above. 2 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience defining topics of genuine significance and conducting scholarly research in the field of Slave Shipwrecks; terrestrial and underwater archeological fieldwork on shipwrecks and cultural landscapes? Answer to this question is required I have experience defining topics of genuine significance and conducting scholarly research in the field of Slave Shipwrecks; terrestrial and underwater archeological fieldwork on shipwrecks and cultural landscapes and determining feasibility of the topic for book-length publications and exhibitions. I have experience conducting scholarly research in the field of Slave Shipwrecks; terrestrial and underwater archeological fieldwork on shipwrecks and cultural landscapes using primary sources and determining feasibility of the topic for articles in professional publications and exhibitions. I have experience conducting scholarly research in the field of American or African American history. I do not have related experience 4 Which of the following functions have you performed in the field of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on material culture of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have developed research on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have answered public inquiries on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom and material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American and Diasporic history and material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom in exhibitions or publications. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions or publications relating to the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. None of the above. 5 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed in the field of the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on African American and Diasporic history and material culture. I have developed research on the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements. I have answered public inquiries on the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements and material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American and Diasporic history and material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements in exhibitions or publications. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions or publications relating to the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements. I have been the curator responsible for developing exhibitions or publications on the history of global slavery and African American political and social reform movements None of the above. 6 Which of the following activities do you have experience conducting research related to the history of American and international slavery, and diasporan movements for freedom? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted historical, cultural, and material culture research on for documentation, interpretation and cataloging. I have researched and written object labels for exhibitions. I have given lectures based on my own research. I have published research articles. I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above 7 Which of the following statements reflects your ability to prepare written documents related to complex technical scientific diving concepts and data that included a focus on anthropological, archaeological and/or archival research? Answer to this question is required I have prepared at least 5 peer-reviewed, scholarly, or technical publications in a journal, or professionally comparable venue. I have prepared 2-4 peer-reviewed, scholarly or technical publications in a journal or professionally comparable venue. I have prepared at least one peer-reviewed, scholarly, or technical publication in a journal or professionally comparable venue. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 8 Which of the following represents your experience researching and writing about museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked independently to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked as part of a team to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked under supervision to research and write about one or more collections. I have interviewed object donors and numerous experts inside and outside of an organization to gather information. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 9 Have you published at least one scholarly or technical article in a scholarly publication? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply archeological collection management principles, concepts and methodology (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I possess a graduate degree in Museum studies or I have experience which demonstrates I have been responsible for the collection of artifacts and/or specimens. I possess a graduate degree related to the field of archeology or I have experience which demonstrates that I have been responsible for the collection of archeological artifacts and/or specimens. I have coursework related to the field of archeological or I have experience which demonstrates I have been responsible for the collection of archeological artifacts and/or specimens. I have experience cataloging archeological museum artifacts and specimens. I have experience registering archeological museum artifacts and specimens. I have experience inventorying archeological museum artifacts and specimens. I have experience documenting archeological museum artifacts and specimens. I have experience preserving archeological museum artifacts and specimens. I have experience identifying and describing archeological artifacts. I have assisted, retrieved and explained collections and collections information for researchers. None of the above. 11 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed in the field of the history and culture of the African Diaspora? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on material culture of the African Diaspora. I have developed research on the history and culture of the African Diaspora relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of the history and culture of the African Diaspora. I have answered public inquiries on the history and culture of the African Diaspora relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on the history and culture of the African Diaspora and material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American and Diasporic history and material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of the history and culture of the African Diaspora.in exhibitions or publications. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions or publications relating to the history and culture of the African Diaspora. I have been the curator responsible for developing exhibitions or publications on the history and culture of the African Diaspora. None of the above. 12 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed in the field of African American history and culture? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on material culture of African American history and culture. I have developed research on African American history and culture relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of African American history and culture. I have answered public inquiries on African American history and culture relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on African American material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of African American history and culture exhibitions or publications. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions, publications or digital content relating to African American history and culture. I have been the curator responsible for developing exhibitions, publications or digital content on African American history and culture. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and delivering public lectures and implementing and participating in public outreach programs in the American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom? Answer to this question is required I have created, organized, implemented, and delivered public talks and programs for African Americans relating to the field of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have worked as a member of a team that created, developed and organized public talks and outreach programs in the field of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have worked as a member of a team that created, developed and organized public talks and outreach programs. I have created, developed and organized public talks or outreach programs. I have no experience developing or implementing public talks or outreach programs. 14 Which of the following describes your experience or training in speaking with museum colleagues, government agencies, professionals, scholars, and the general public? Answer to this question is required I have completed course work in oral communication. I have made oral presentations about issues in history, arts and culture to professionals, scholars, potential donors, and the general public in a public setting or conference. I have made oral presentations about history, arts and culture topics to museum colleagues, students, and the general public in a public setting. None of the above. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience in verbal communication sufficient to conduct research and develop partnerships? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in verbal communication sufficient to conduct research and develop partnerships. I have moderate experience in verbal communication sufficient to conduct research and develop partnerships. I have minimal experience in verbal communication sufficient to conduct research and develop partnerships. I do not have experience in verbal communication sufficient to conduct research and develop partnerships. 16 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations. (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Contractors Senior level officials Program Officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals within my organization Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Government officials None of the above 17 Which of the following best describes your skill and experience in safe scientific diving techniques and developing curricula for underwater archaeological training programs? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a lecturer that included teaching archaeological scientific diving techniques through an organized training program including both classroom and field coursework. I have experience as an instructor that included teaching scientific diving techniques with a focus on archeology. I have experience assisting in the teaching of a scientific diving course. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 18 Which of the following diving certification(s) best describes your experience? Answer to this question is required AAUS Scientific Diver Master Diver or Dive Master Rescue diver None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.