Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have experience working in an infection control program as it relates to: prevention of exposure to infectious diseases; administration of vaccinations; reduction in the transmission of infectious agents; containment of infectious outbreaks; and evaluation of infection control programs. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have the experience required by the selective factor and this experience is clearly addressed in my resume. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator contacts include professional medical and administrative personnel in the institutions, region and Central Offices. These contacts include Regional Directors, Wardens, Associate Wardens and others. He/she will have many and varied contacts with health care professionals in other government agencies and in the public. He/she may also have contact with Congressional staff, institution staff, and correctional staff external to the Bureau of Prisons and/or other public officials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led meetings regarding an infectious disease/quality management issues task force or work group; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on infectious disease/quality management issues cases; and/or I have advised high ranking or management officials of infectious disease/quality management issues; and/or I have provided training to other health services staff on quality management topics, risk management issues and infection disease issues. I have provided technical assistance on infectious disease/quality improvement issues to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with managers while involved in a quality improvement study; and/or I have provided guidance on infectious disease/quality improvement issues to less experienced staff; and/or I have provided infectious disease/quality improvement issues information during a department head meeting. I have given a presentation on updated Quality Improvement practices during a departmental meeting; and/or I have provided training on technical information to medical staff; and/or I have communicated with local community leaders regarding healthcare information; and/or I have taught infectious disease/quality improvement during Annual Training. None of the above. 7 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator collects, aggregates and interprets data in preparing reports, correspondence, and responses on a variety of issues to the Regional Health Services Administrator or Chief, Quality Management, which may be used as part of reports/responses to Bureau of Prisons executive staff, Department of Justice (DOJ), American Correctional Association (ACA), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), Joint Commission, or other federal, state or local government. He/she also prepares correspondence to/from Wardens/CEOs, regional, central office, field personnel and the general public. The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator possesses comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared information for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared directions on infectious disease/quality management issues for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries on infectious disease/quality management issues from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct infectious disease/quality management issues training seminars; and/or I have collected, aggregated and interpreted data in preparing written documentation and written reports focusing on infectious disease/quality management issues and activities of the agency. I have written memorandums related to infectious disease/quality improvement issues for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandums or correspondence on infectious disease/quality improvement issues for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have used provided data in preparing routine infectious disease/quality improvement issues reports. None of the above. 8 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator works independently using process and outcome measures to assess the delivery of medical care to federal inmates. May manage the inmate mortality review process, Joint Commission, Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) and American Correctional Association (ACA) accreditation process, Program Review staff assistance, coordination of focus reviews, competency reviews, credentialing and privileging process and infection prevention and control processes. Ensures the Bureau of Prison&rsquo;s maintains compliance with all policies, programs, regulations and other guidelines. This requires that he/she be familiar with policy and regulations, such as those concerning Joint Commission, AAAHC, and ACA standards, institutional operations, and security in order to develop and implement policy which impacts on institutional operations and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in organizational audits and performance improvement processes; and/or I have ensured that a policy implementation plan was in place for the health care facility; and/or I have assisted in implementing specific health care policies in compliance with Joint Commission standards; and/or I have provided on-site training in new policies/procedures at health care facilities. I have conducted periodic operational reviews/audits; and/or I have assisted in primary source verification; and/or I have maintained continuing professional education training records and credentialing files on medical staff; and/or I have participated in program reviews/operational reviews in other institutions. I have prepared and facilitated training for new Joint Commission and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) regulations, as appropriate; and/or I have actively participated on a team where policies were discussed and an implementation plan developed; and/or I have ensured policy implementation for a region or several facilities/institutions. None of the above. 9 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator is a health care professional who carries out the duties of quality improvement, accreditation, risk management, and continuing professional medical education for the health services programs throughout the Bureau of Prisons. He/she is personally responsible for duties which include planning, organizing/reviewing work, determining program goals and monitoring/evaluating the progress in meeting goals. He/she is responsible for determining the need for and developing programs which impact at the local level, as well as, the organization as a whole. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected organizational performance data; and/or I have conducted a Quality Improvement study; and/or I have provided a site visit in preparation for an Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission survey and other internal and external audits. I have drafted a findings report; and/or I have researched and analyzed current medical procedures; and/or I have shared findings information with co-workers and regional medical staff. I have analyzed current medical care trends; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports such as indicator reports; and/or I have collected medical information from existing databases before analyzing the trends and reporting them to the quality manager. None of the above. 10 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator oversees a program, policy or procedure and must analyze, evaluate, and interpret various diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in order to determine the appropriateness of care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided an analysis or an interpretation of diagnostic results or therapeutic procedures to identify any strengths and weaknesses in the care provided; and/or I have conducted peer reviews of other staff members and provided an opinion on the appropriateness of care provided and formulated recommendations; and/or I have reviewed administrative remedy cases and provided an opinion on the care provided; and/or I have assisted in the training of in-house staff pertaining to issues identified in patient care. I have collected all data to be reviewed at a mortality review; and/or I have collected and reported national performance measures; and/or I have attended risk management training and performed therapeutic measures. I have analyzed diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the care of chronic care clinic patients; and/or I have actively participated in staff training regarding patient care; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures in training of risk management issues. None of the above. 11 The Regional Quality Improvement Coordinator will assist with formulating the accreditation process, developing assessment profiles of all health care units, developing data system which measures morbidity, mortality, and other clinical and medical parameters to ensure that sound medical practices, evidence based practices and protocols are followed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recorded reviews to ensure current clinical practice guidelines are being used; and/or I have recorded reviews to ensure infectious disease protocols are being followed as per disease specific guidelines; and/or I have recorded a review to ensure that the overall management of chronic diseases is followed as per current clinical practice guidelines. I have reviewed and articulated the standardized Clinical Practice Guidelines/standardized Nursing Protocols for correctional healthcare; and/or I have demonstrated the use of Clinical Practice Guidelines/standardized Nursing Protocols in the treatment plan of patients; and/or I have applied principles based on patient safety and infectious disease management in the daily professional activities. I have provided in-house staff training on clinical issues and/or patient safety through the continuing medical education program; and/or I have provided patient education sessions to patient/inmate groups and updated staff on current clinical advances or research; and/or I have coordinated the training and orientation of junior clinical staff; and/or I have conducted institutional/facility mortality reviews and peer reviews of other staff members; and/or I have utilized patient safety techniques and competent clinical skills in the application of clinical guidelines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).