Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression related to the operation or management of a museum or similar collection of valuable objects. I have 1 full academic year of related graduate level education or superior academic achievement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Do you have at least one year or more of experience working with natural science collections in two or more of the following disciplines: &nbsp; biology, botany, geology, zoology, and/or anthropology? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following types of museum specimens do you have experience handling in a museum (or a related setting)? Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Oversized collections such as large sculptures, machines, or other large artifacts/specimens that require material handling equipment to move Fluid preserved (alcohol/formalin) biological specimens in jars Fluid preserved (alcohol/formalin) biological specimens in tanks Skeletal remains Skin, fur, or feathered covered objects Botany/plant/herbarium specimens Other types of museum specimens None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your experience with museum or archive collections management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience cataloging collection objects I have experience registering collection objects I have experience inventorying collection objects I have experience documenting collection objects I have experience preparing condition reports I have identified conservation issues related to specific materials or objects I have experience identifying and describing artifacts I have drafted collection histories and summaries I have processed collection acquisitions or de-accessions I have retrieved and explained collections or collections information to researchers I have labeled and numbered collections I have housed and stored museum or archive collections I have packed museum or archive collections for transit None of the above 5 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have independently processed fresh, frozen or preserved specimens by pinning, skinning, skeletonizing, using fluid preservatives or other preservative methods to create museum quality collections. I have experience working under guidance to process natural history specimens for preservation, but have not done so independently. I have taken educational course in museum preservation methods, but have not done had hands-on experience in preserving natural history specimens. I have no experience or education in museum preservation methods. 6 Which one of the following best describes the level of your knowledge of Natural Science collections management practices and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate degree related to natural science including courses orientated towards biology, geology or paleontology collections OR equivalent experience applying related collections management techniques for a scientific collection. I have a graduate degree related to natural science including courses orientated towards biology, geology or paleontology collections OR equivalent experience applying related collections management and research techniques for a scientific collection. I have experience working as a museum specialist or equivalent performing collections management, natural history, and specimen curation. I have experience working as a museum technician or equivalent performing such activities as plant or animal specimen preparation and cataloging. None of the above 7 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with museum collections documentation? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in a physical inventory by matching records with items I have independently matched records to items and have identified inconsistencies in the records I have independently matched records to items, identified inconsistencies, and resolved those inconsistencies I have no experience with collections documentation 8 Which of the following describes your experience with incoming and outgoing natural history specimen loans? Answer to this question is required I have experience processing natural history specimen incoming and outgoing loans to completion. I have experience working under guidance to process natural history specimen loans. I have an understanding of how to process natural history specimen loans but have not had direct experience in doing the work. I am not familiar with how to process natural history specimen loans. 9 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience leading teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience leading teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience leading teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 10 Which of the following best describes the verbal (oral) communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external audiences. I have made presentations and/or provided classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have successfully negotiated with others to resolve issues. I have interviewed staff or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or partner in efforts. I have not done any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.