Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your employment in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court, or Court System). Answer to this question is required I am a court employee and have worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a full-time temporary employee (FTT) or While Actually Employed (WAE) in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a court employee and have not worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System). However, I am eligible because this position is in my current division. None of the above 2 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education. Answer to this question is required I have a law degree from an accredited university or college. I have a master's degree from an accredited university or college. I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college. None of the above. 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience. Answer to this question is required I have two (2) years of relevant experience. I have three (3) years of relevant experience. I have five (5) years of relevant experience. I have seven (7) years of relevant experience. None of the above 4 In which areas of contracting and procurement have you training or education? Answer to this question is required Acquisition Planning Contract Formation Contract Administration Cost Analysis Price Analysis Federal Contract Negotiation Techniques Intermediate Contract Pricing Government Contract Law None of the Above 5 Which contracting/procurement activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have conducted market research and identified contracting sources. I have determined the applicability of commercial contracting procedures. I have analyzed cost and pricing data. I have analyzed offeror proposals. I have evaluated offerors for financial responsibility and past performance. None of the above. 6 Do you have experience developing, implementing, and monitoring new initiatives, projects or programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience collecting, interpreting and analyzing data to measure and improve program effectiveness or productivity? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 8 Which budget responsibilities have you performed? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have managed a personnel services budget I have managed a non-personnel services budget I have developed a personnel services budget for submission to my supervisor I have developed a non-personnel services budget for submission to my supervisor I have developed a personnel services budget for submission to executive officials I have developed a non-personnel services budget for submission to executive officials I have developed a budget requesting new or additional resources New or additional resources were approved as a result of my budget request I have no experience with budgets 9 Which statement best describes your experience preparing and presenting reports to executive level managers? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 10 Which leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting performance measures, standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing operating budgets Planning work assignments and schedules Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness Following up with employees Allocating resources Developing workforce plans Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implementing work completed Delegating responsibilities Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Rewarding and recognizing performance Providing career development opportunities Managing diversity None of the above View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).