Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this position.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 In addition to the Specialized Experience requirement, you must also meet the educational requirement for Statistician positions. Select the response that best describes your education in accordance with this requirement. Answer to this question is required I have earned a degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. I have a combination of education and experience of courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 GS-12: Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this position.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. 3.1 Describe an experience where you designed and implemented a probability-based sampling plan to analyze a large or complex dataset. How did you determine the appropriate sampling methodology (e.g., stratified, cluster, systematic) and ensure the sample size was sufficient for drawing valid conclusions? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.2 Give an example of a time you used statistical modeling methods (e.g., regression, ANOVA, multivariate analysis) to test a hypothesis or examine complex relationships within a dataset. How did you validate your model and its underlying assumptions? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.3 Describe your experience performing data analysis and/or visualization utilizing R, Python, or Stata. Which libraries/packages do you prefer? How do you make sure your analysis is sound and reproducible? Maximum length of 700 characters. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 3.1 Describe an academic project where you designed a sampling plan to gather and analyze data. How did your coursework inform your choice of sampling methodology (e.g., stratified, cluster, systematic) and how you determined the sample size was appropriate for your research question? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.2 Provide an example from your coursework or research where you used statistical modeling methods (e.g., regression, ANOVA, multivariate analysis) to test a hypothesis. How did your academic training guide you in validating the model and its assumptions? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.3 Describe your academic experience using R, Python, or Stata for a research project or class assignment. Which libraries/packages did you use and why? How did you ensure your analysis was sound and reproducible for academic purposes? Maximum length of 700 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 3.1 Describe a time you designed a sampling plan, drawing upon your education, work experience, or both. How did your combined background help you select the right methodology and ensure the plan was both statistically sound and practically achievable? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.2 Give an example of a time you used statistical modeling methods (e.g., regression, ANOVA, multivariate analysis), integrating principles from your education and/or skills from your work experience. How did your combined knowledge help you choose the model, validate it, and interpret the results? Maximum length of 700 characters. 3.3 Describe your experience performing data analysis and/or visualization utilizing R, Python, or Stata, referencing both academic projects and/or professional work. Which libraries/packages do you find most effective and why? How do you apply principles of reproducibility from your education and/or experience in your work? Maximum length of 700 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the Specialized Experience requirement, you must also meet the educational requirement for Statistician positions. Select the response that best describes your education in accordance with this requirement. Answer to this question is required I have earned a degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. I have a combination of education and experience of courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 14 1 Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-14 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the Specialized Experience requirement, you must also meet the educational requirement for Statistician positions. Select the response that best describes your education in accordance with this requirement. Answer to this question is required I have earned a degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. I have a combination of education and experience of courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades 1 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 8.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 8.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).