Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current FDIC employee on a competitive service (status) permanent appointment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 If selected, which of these sections are you interested in supervising? Multiple answers are allowed. 1. Leadership Development: The Corporate University Leadership Development Unit supports FDIC&rsquo;s mission and business objectives through high-quality continuous leadership development training. &nbsp;The Unit consists of Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, and Training Specialists responsible for the development and delivery of leadership training programs to the FDIC workforce. &nbsp; 2. Bank Examination Training Standards: This section provides course implementation services to support the learning needs of the examiner workforce. In addition, this section is responsible for supporting requests to fund and conduct implementation of off the- shelf/vendor online or classroom training. Answer to this question is required Leadership Development Bank Examination Training Standards 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have leadership experience in leading and coordinating projects, including establishing expectations, reviewing work products/services, monitoring progress, and providing guidance and feedback to team members. &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have technical experience in developing training strategies and programs to include design, development, and delivery of content that included theories, experiential activities, and a knowledge of competencies. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have technical experience in developing work processes and systems for development training programs, ensuring accurate and quality work products with operational efficiency which align with organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have technical experience in developing and/or modifying policies, procedures, and instructions for managers and employees, as related to an organization's development training program.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Overview of the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Please provide a response of up to 1300 characters (approximately 200 words) for each question.&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The FDIC prohibits consideration of characteristics unrelated to the job. Do not include information related to Race, Ethnicity, Sex, Religion, Disability, Height &amp; Weight, Sex, Marital/Familial status (e.g., marital, parental, pregnancy) or Political Affiliation in your written responses. 7 Short Essay Question 1: How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 8 Short Essay Question 2: In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 9 Short Essay Question 3: How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words) to each question.&lt;/strong&gt; 10 Short Essay Question 4: How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?&nbsp; Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 11 Certification for the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No 12 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).