Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed standard operating procedure(s). Modified existing network programs. Monitored computer security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Inspected computer sites to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed. Modified existing network programs. Estimated resources needed to implement network. Used existing plans to test specific application programs. Reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Determined availability of space for hardware. Recognized hardware/software problems and resolved. Used technical specification to install hardware/software. Identified problems and referred to second or third tier group for final resolution. Customer Service : Presented information regarding systems requirements and/or resolved problems encountered. Installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors) for end-users. Briefed staff on procedural changes. Provided training to users on new policies. Responded in writing to questions from customers seeking guidance on a routine computer related issue. Attended implementation meetings with customers. Attended design meetings with users. Performed research on user needs. Estimated resources needed to implement a network. Served as computer contact for users on routine or non-critical matters. Analyzed individual user requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions for work assignments. Coordinated efforts in the installation of computer programs. Prepared e-mail instructions to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task. Oral Communication : Contacted vendor for release of new software packages. Contacted vendor for information on retraining staff using another computer language. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Responded to information security and audit related questions. Contacted persons within the agency regarding problematic areas. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Facilitated and provided information technology training. Performed research for IT user needs. Provided support for IT end users and management. Responded to recurring IT external inquiries. Coordinated IT vendor demonstrations for end users and provided an interface with the vendor. Assisted in providing IT formal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Problem Solving : Provided advice and guidance on various IT specialty issues. Isolated a programming problem and referred it appropriately. Ensured corrective actions to restore IT operational service. Oversaw function tests of IT hardware/software to resolve technical problems and ensure appropriate on-site repair. Recognized and resolved IT hardware and software problems. Reviewed IT hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting on PC's and related IT equipment. Detected and corrected a network security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration. Recommended a method to make the network more efficient. Performed routine troubleshooting on PC's. Worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine IT software/hardware problems. Tested specific IT software application programs. Checked intranet system and/or areas requiring security improvements. Resolved routine IT project related issues. Coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager. Analyzed and resolved non-routine network problems. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Applicants with one year of experience in Project Management or have a Certificate in Project Management Professional (PMP) is preferred. Note: Applicants who possess the quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no candidate can be rated ineligible solely for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Do you have experience or have a Certificate in Project Management Professional (PMP)? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Project Manager must communicate technical and project information with end users in a non-technical, clear and concise manner. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted persons within the agency to assist in resolving end user problems; and/or I have obtained user requirements for equipment/software applications; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a problem with an existing software project. I have contacted persons within the agency to gather information about a problem; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one on a specific requirement; and/or I have explained/briefed/communicated routine project information. I have performed briefings or demonstrations for management/administrators on a new computer system; and/or I have informed, directed and updated all tasks for project fulfillment as a team leader of projects; and/or I have provided guidance to team members of an information technology project; and/or I have served as an arbitrator in reaching agreement over disputes regarding requirements, testing procedures or project priorities. None of the above. 6 The Project Manager develops technical documentation (i.e., work plans, status reports, project schedules, systems design, user requirements, data flow diagrams, and test plans).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared instructional emails to end users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine project related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation. I have developed data flow diagrams; and/or I have completed sections of larger reports for review by management concerning information technology use or proposals; and/or I have completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures; and/or I have revised established functional requirements. I have developed several end-user guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide; and/or I have established complex functional requirements documentation; and/or I have written a personal computer operations manual; and/or I have developed systems design; and/or I have written technical procedures to be applied by an agency/organization corporation; and/or I have written status for review by branch managers and above. None of the above. 7 The Project Manager collects facts from users regarding their needs. He/she determine alternative solutions and conclude whether an existing system can be modified or a new system must be developed. Upon final determination, he/she must be able to provide guidance on the user interface design, facilitate requirements clarification during the coding phase, provide guidance during the development of system test plans, and implement the computer system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a feasibility study, requirements analysis, design specifications, and construction (i.e., programming, testing and implementation) to replace an existing employee system; and/or I have utilized state of the art internet technologies, methods, standards, and issues (regarding security, privacy, accessibility) to lead the development and management of a website or web portal for a major national program that involved privacy, access and authentication issues in accessing personnel records; and/or I have provided guidance to a multi-specialty workgroup of applications developers, data management specialists, network specialists, and others involved in the planning, design, implementation and maintenance of an agency website or web portal; and/or I have utilized skills in systems analysis and design to review the impact of new systems design policies on the systems design process which affected costs, software or security being used. I have consulted with users/management to refine functional requirements that were developed by Systems Development Team; and/or I have assisted in testing the new system and identified a problem which was referred to the development team; and/or I have updated the procedures documentation that were developed in the design stage of system development; and/or I have diagnosed trouble on a website, made corrections and restored functionality utilizing knowledge and skills with browsers and internet principles. I have evaluated the feasibility of a proposed new system development project; and/or I have translated the functional requirements of the new system into design specifications; and/or I have determined the best approach for testing and implementation of the new system within the technical environment; and/or I have worked with applications developers to isolate and solve design problems encountered during testing and implementation stages; and/or I have optimized an existing website/application and provided guidance in the design and development of new websites/applications. None of the above. 8 The Project Manager reviews project proposals or plans to determine time frame, funding limitations, procedures for accomplishing projects, staffing requirements and allotment of available resources to various project phases, establish work plans and staffing for each phase of projects, and arrange for recruitment or assignment of project personnel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented justifications and resource requirements to department managers for modifications of hardware/software plans; and/or I have recommended large-scale modifications of computer systems; and/or I have revised previous year’s resource plan to fit current year’s needs; and/or I have prepared documentation for cost/benefit study. I have developed a feasibility study which included software/hardware/manpower costs; and/or I have estimated the cost to implement a computer system and followed through to installation; and/or I have planned, coordinated and prioritized activities to be accomplished by a group as project leader of a design team. I have performed research on user needs; and/or I have contacted vendors for information on retraining staff using another computer language; and/or I have determined availability of space for hardware. None of the above. 9 The Project Manager must communicate with end users, team members and management in a non‑technical, clear manner. He/she must develop and manage the relationship between information technology and other stakeholders with the goal of defining, planning, building, and assessing the information technology project.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted vendor for release of new software package; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one to resolve routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have explained security procedures and measures in place. I have eliminated the need to deal with a superfluous contact so that a project could be handled in a timely manner; and/or I have taught technical and end-user program applications to staff; and/or I have performed briefings or demonstrations for upper management on a new computer system; and/or I have taught a computer course to end users of all knowledge base levels; and/or I have served as an arbitrator in reaching agreement over major disputes regarding computer products, services or charges with an outside entity; and/or I have written a user guide on how to operate an organization’s computer system. I have contacted a vendor for support in resolving end user problems; and/or I have obtained user requirements for information technology equipment/software applications; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a problem with existing software; and/or I have updated an existing users guide on how to operate an organization’s computer system. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).