Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience working in an office setting for an organization that is responsible for supporting capital projects and facilities maintenance? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Do you have experience coordinating with managers, contractors, stakeholders and other external organizations to develop and manage project timelines, policies, and processes, and ensure deliverables? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience supporting human capital program processes, including recruitment and retention and the processing of employee benefits similar to paid parental leave or family medical leave act applications? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Select the statement that reflects your highest level of experience with Human Capital Management procedures (recruitment and retention) and Employee Engagement (benefits and awards). Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Select the areas of management analysis in which you have on-the-job experience. Answer to this question is required Compliance management Facilities management Operations and maintenance Budget and financial management Program development and assessment Records management Strategic planning Policy development Project management Contract management None of the above 6 Select the statements that describe tasks you perform on a daily or regular basis. (Select all that apply.)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Communicate with managers and organizational staff regarding training and development programs. Provided technical assistance and support with registration for online courses, webinars and systems. Utilized a database to coordinate and track administrative aspects of training and development programs. Provided financial and/or procurement support through data processing, monitoring and/or reporting. None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing project management activities? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience related to project management. I have completed education or training related to project management but I have not applied it on the job. I have assisted project managers with assigned tasks to help manage projects. I have implemented project plans developed by others and made recommendations for changes when needed. I have designed projects and methodologies to achieve project goals. 8 Which project management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Established project milestones. Established deliverables. Set deadlines. Allocated resources. Aligned resources with goals. Created stakeholder communications. None of the above. 9 For what purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To develop program recommendations. To modify program goals. To measure program performance. To ensure business operations. To provide input on short and long term goals. To perform cost benefit analysis. None of the above 10 Please select the computer software applications you have used in an office environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable Microsoft Teams Sharepoint MAXIMO Financial Management System (FMS Momentum) or comparable None of the above 11 Select the statement that best describes your experience with entering data accurately into computer database systems or spreadsheet programs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 12 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identified relevant and important information Synthesized data from multiple sources Discerned underlying assumptions Generated solution ideas Weighed alternative options Developed recommendations Validated support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 13 Select the statements that describe your presentation/communication experience (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence intended for Congress or the public for signature by higher level officials. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. Compiled complex information and presented in simple, straightforward terms for a variety of audiences. Composed safety/emergency response information for impacted staff, media or public during times of crisis. None of the above. 14 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues and/or provided training to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Clarified procedural, regulatory or policy requirements to a variety of individuals from within and outside of the agency or organization. Responded to requests for information from high ranking officials and VIPs None of the above. 15 Have you advised staff and management on human capital policies and procedures to keep an organization informed and in compliance with rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Select the option that best describes your experience providing briefings and findings to management. Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have given supervisors or managers informal updates. I have given formal structured presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings. I have given formal structured presentations of material that was highly technical, controversial or sensitive. 17 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports Financial reports Data justification reports (non-financial) Data interpretation/research reports Program Evaluation Reports Standard Operating Procedures Summaries Process Improvement Plans Action Plans Policy Directives Recommendations on the use of data Recommendations for operational changes On-Line Material Printed Material None of the above 18 What written formats have you used to convey information and instructions when preparing financial documents? Answer to this question is required Drafted, edited, revised, or reviewed documents justifying your position on budget or program initiatives. Wrote policies, guidelines, and procedures regarding budgetary information and business operations. Prepared cost reports, budget reports, payment policies for reporting financial data and program evaluation. Created financial reports, spreadsheets, and charts that contained relevant budget and business performance data. None of the above. 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.