Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 09 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I possess a combination of education and experience as described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described. 2 Have you managed the logistical operations for an organization or an executive with multiple, changing and often conflicting demands for meetings, events and other obligations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you worked in an institution with an emphasis on African American history or culture? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience concurrently providing a range of administrative duties essential to the operation of an office that supports an Associate Director, Deputy Director or equivalent executive as well as subordinate organizational units? Answer to this question is required I have experience concurrently providing a range of managerial duties essential to the operation of an office that supports an Associate Director, Deputy Director or equivalent executive as well as subordinate organizational units. I have experience concurrently providing a range of administrative duties essential to the operation of an office that supports multiple supervisors or managers, as well as several organizational units. I have experience concurrently providing a range of administrative duties essential to the operation of an office that supports several organizational units. I have experience assisting with concurrently providing a range of administrative duties essential to the operation of a central office that supports several organizational units. I do not have related experience. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to prioritize and develop work assignments while effectively responding to day-to-day administrative changes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of these tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained others in performance of these skills and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which conditions describe the organizations you have provided support for an executive? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Organizations of national scope. Organizations with multiple subordinate levels. Organizations with multiple layers above. Organizations with extensive outside constituencies, including the public. Organizations with a national advisory board. Organizations with corporate and individual donors. None of the above describes my experience. 7 Have you managed the schedule for an organization or an executive with obligations during and after business hours, including weekends? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following statements demonstrates administrative support activities in which you have engaged? (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the areas of time and attendance and reconciling leave and payroll problems. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as telephone changes, office moves, travel, time & attendance, and files maintenance. I have maintained my supervisor's calendar. I have maintained my staff's calendars. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience making travel arrangements for the supervisor or staff? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in making travel arrangements. I have completed training in making travel arrangements, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made travel arrangements for supervisor or staff on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have made travel arrangements for supervisor or staff as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have made travel arrangements for my supervisor or staff as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following groups of people do you have experience routinely communicating with on behalf of a director or executive? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Internal and external staff at multiple levels. Government officials such as White House or congressional staff. Executives of major corporations. Members of Smithsonian or the Advisory Council of African American History and Culture (or equivalent). Foundation executives. Private donors. High-level representatives from African American organizations or communities. Officials of colleges and universities, historical societies, museums, and other educational organizations. None of the above duties. 11 Which of the following funds management duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 12 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 13 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders Compiled and summarized the findings of studies None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing data and information when preparing written reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared. I have been the primary author of briefings, articles, studies, or reports. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. I have analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared. I have not had experience or training in analyzing data and information when preparing written reports. 15 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed these duties on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have experience as described in the choices above. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your experience proofreading letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling, and typographical errors? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training proofreading letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling and typographical errors. I have completed formal education or training proofreading letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling and typographical errors, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have proofread letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling and typographical errors under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have proofread letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling and typographical errors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have proofread letters or other documents for grammatical, spelling and typographical errors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which best describes your highest level of experience in effectively communicating orally in order to obtain information and convey results? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Which of the following groups of people do you have experience routinely communicating with on behalf of an executive? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Internal and external staff at multiple levels. Government officials such as White House and congressional staff. Executives of major corporations. Members of advisory boards. Foundation executives. Private donors. Officials of colleges and universities, historical societies, museums, and other cultural organizations. None of the above. 19 Which of the following statements describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have orally presented ideas and decisions to internal and external contacts. I have explained and/or interpreted facts orally such as conducting tours of facilities and explaining the work performed by the organization. I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have completed college level courses in such subjects as speech or public speaking. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 20 Which of the following statements describe your experience in communicating orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager I have assisted in orally presenting ideas and decisions which are routine in nature to co-workers and a variety of individuals. I have communicated regularly with co-workers and professional colleagues providing detailed programmatic information and explanations of involved procedures. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience that was not responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated administrative information to internal audiences. I have taught less experienced personnel on administrative operations. I have limited public speaking skills. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 21 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in providing high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, preparing detailed travel itineraries and monitoring project deliverables? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in providing high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, managing and maintaining calendars and monitoring project deliverables. I have completed training in providing high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, managing and maintaining calendars and monitoring project deliverables, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned, coordinated and provided high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, managing and maintaining calendars and monitoring project deliverables—under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have planned, coordinated and provided high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, managing and maintaining calendars and monitoring project deliverables—independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, coordinated and provided high-level administrative support to senior management, including screening calls, managing and maintaining calendars and monitoring project deliverables—as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining a Director or senior management official's calendar? Answer to this question is required I have experience ensuring a Director or senior management official’s calendar is current on his/her PC or handheld calendaring equipment including scheduling and coordination meetings requiring various groups of participants, coordinating recurring or last minute meetings and using discretion in determining whether or not sensitive information is posted. I have experience ensuring a Director or senior management official’s calendar is current on his/her PC or handheld calendaring equipment including scheduling and coordination meetings requiring various groups of participants and coordinating recurring or last minute meetings. I have experience ensuring a Director or senior management official’s calendar is current on his/her PC or handheld calendaring equipment including scheduling and coordination meetings requiring various groups of participants. I have experience ensuring a Director or senior management official’s calendar is current on his/her PC or handheld calendaring equipment. I do not have related experience. 23 Which of the following attributes describe non-profit organizations you have experience supporting an executive in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Non-profits with a national public constituency Non-profits with multiple subordinate levels Non-profits with multiple levels above Non-profits with federal oversight Non-profits with a national advisory board Non-profits with corporate, foundation and individual donors Non-profits whose executive has/had outside but related obligations Non-profits with scrutiny by news media None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.