Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to the duties of the position. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M., if related. I have a combination of education and experience: An equivalent combination of the specialized experience and the graduate-level education described above. None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as (1) reviewing, editing, and drafting documents; (2) supporting high level management in a confidential environment; and (3) extensive experience with Microsoft Office to support and manage recordkeeping. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as (1) developing written communication products tailored to a variety of audiences; (2) providing high-quality administrative support to senior executives in a confidential environment; and (3) performing high-volume calendar management, travel scheduling, booking and organizing events. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 2 Select all software programs in which you have "strong" knowledge and capability using? Answer to this question is required Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) Presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) Spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) Publishing software (e.g., Microsoft Publisher, Adobe PageMaker) Diagramming software (e.g., Microsoft Visio) Web-based collaboration software (e.g., SharePoint) Project tracking software (e.g., Microsoft Project) None of the above 3 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 4 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above. 5 Which of the following activities have you performed to ensure the accuracy of information? Answer to this question is required Fact-checked materials Performed research to update materials Proof-read materials Gathered information to create new materials None of the above 6 Which of the following problem solving techniques have you applied in the workplace? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Identified the Problem: Detected that there was a problem; identified the nature of the problem; defined the problem. Structured the Problem: Observed, carefully inspected, performed fact-finding and developed a clear picture of the problem. Looked for Possible Solutions: Generated a range of possible courses of action; however, with little attempt to evaluate them at this stage. Made a Decision: Carefully analyzed different courses of action and selected the best solution to implement. Applied creative thinking and innovative ideas on difficult and complex cases. Implementation: Accepted and carried out the course of action chosen. Monitored/Sought Feedback: Reviewed the outcome over a period of time and sought feedback as to the success of the outcomes. None of the above. 7 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the types of person-to-person communication for briefings you have performed as a regular recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives or priorities on a regular basis. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences. None of the above. 8 Select all areas of executive support in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Managing calendars Scheduling meetings Recording and distributing minutes of meetings Generating and routing documents for approval Disseminating communications and information to staff None of the above 9 Do you have experience working on Capitol Hill? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.