Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to provide customer service.** Demonstrated ability to deal effectively with a wide variety of individuals in order to disseminate financial information and answer inquiries from staff and the public. Answer to this question is required Determined the scope and nature of actions required to resolve accounting related customer service problems on a wide variety of financial-related issues that required an analysis of different and unrelated processes or sources. Recommended new or revised procedures to resolve changing customer needs. Helped customers define their problems and outlined options available to them. Tracked cases to resolution and reported outcomes. Determined the scope and nature of actions required to resolve accounting related customer service problems on a variety of financial-related issues that required an analysis of processes and/or sources. Resolved complaints and explained remedies available to customers who had complaints. Responded to inquiries by providing relevant information regarding office functions, rules, and procedures or assisted customers with basic accounting related services. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to communicate effectively in writing.** Used knowledge of spelling, grammar and punctuation to write clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products communicating and requesting factual information such as: 1) formal and informal correspondence including emails, memos and letters in response to inquiries, 2) transactional data entered into accounting/financial systems, along with supporting documentation, 3) billing documents, 4) accounting/financial reports, and 5) frequently asked questions (FAQs). Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal guidance wrote a variety of documents including FOUR of the above, that summarized data and/or provided other factual information. Communicated accurate and understandable content with correct format, spelling, grammar, and punctuation. With attention to detail and accuracy, recorded and maintained records in an automated system. Independently or with minimal guidance wrote a variety of documents including THREE of the above, that summarized data and/or provided other factual information. Communicated accurate and understandable content with correct format, spelling, grammar, and punctuation. With attention to detail and accuracy, recorded and maintained records in an automated system. Independently or with minimal guidance wrote a variety of documents including TWO of the above, that summarized data and/or provided other factual information. Communicated accurate and understandable content with correct format, spelling, grammar, and punctuation. With attention to detail and accuracy, recorded and maintained records in an automated system. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to plan and organize work assignments in order to meet deadlines.** Searched, retrieved, and analyzed records; utilized automated databases, set work priorities and met deadlines within specified time limits. Answer to this question is required Applied advanced accounting and administrative techniques and followed established procedures to analyze, process and report on financial transactions. Independently reviewed, analyzed and identified errors or incomplete information, recommended solutions or reported inconsistencies to others for further action. Established priorities when working with a large volume of work or diverse transactions and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. Used routine accounting and administrative techniques and followed established procedures to analyze and process and recurring financial transactions. Identified errors or incomplete information and reported those inconsistencies to others for further action. Established priorities and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. Applied basic accounting and administrative techniques and followed established procedures to process routine financial transactions. Established priorities and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of financial management policies and procedures. Applied knowledge of financial management policies and procedures to understand the interrelationships between agency financial systems to evaluate records and transactions, identify system issues and problems, and initiate corrective actions. Answer to this question is required Independently performed various financial management assignments to identify and resolve financial matters, including gathering, compiling, and reviewing and reconciling financial data to ensure transactions were properly input in the internal financial management tracking system. Adjustments were made using well-established financial management practices recommendations were made to solve unusual situations/problems encountered. With minimal supervision performed routine work related to financial management sufficient to assist in obtaining, compiling, and summarizing narrative information and quantitative data in order to execute recurring transactions in the organization, including reviewing and ensuring the accuracy of the cost of line items on requisitions. Performed entry-level work related to financial management sufficient to assist in obtaining, compiling, and summarizing narrative information and quantitative data for use by others in the organization, including reviewing and ensuring the accuracy of the cost of line items on requisitions. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to utilize automation software applications. Utilized computer technology and software applications to perform work for an organization, including: 1) Microsoft Office Suite (e.g., MS Word), 2) electronic mail and calendars, and 3) web-based tools, 4) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), and 5) accounting systems (e.g., Momentum). Answer to this question is required Utilized ALL of the above software to generate accounting related working documents and forms in an office setting. Provided advice and assistance to others on their use and on applying advanced software functions. Prepared a variety of accounting reports utilizing accounting software. Utilized THREE or FOUR of the above software to generate accounting related working documents and forms in an office setting. Provided advice and assistance to others on their use and on applying advanced software functions. Utilized TWO of the above software to generate accounting related working documents and forms in an office setting. Provided advice and assistance to others on their use and on applying advanced software functions. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).