Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 With which of the following logistics management functions do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Logistics planning Supply chain management Storage and distribution Transportation Acquisitions procurement Customer service Inventory / property management Contract negotiations Travel and household goods Pouch and mail services Policy Project management Training Logistics systems None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST represents your level of experience in supply chain management? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in supply chain management. I have education or training in supply chain management, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed supply chain management functions on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed supply chain management functions as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing supply chain management functions on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 With which of the following supply chain programs / systems do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Integrated Logistics Management Systems - Transportation (ILMS) Integrated Logistics Management System - Warehousing (ILMS) PowerTrack Ariba Other None of the above 7 Which of the following tools have you routinely used in the management of logistics-related projects? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Access or equivalent database application Microsoft Excel or equivalent spreadsheet application Microsoft PowerPoint or equivalent presentation application Query development application Microsoft Project or equivalent project management application Visio or equivalent process mapping application None of the above 8 Which of the following BEST represents your level of experience in logistics planning? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in logistics planning. I have education or training in logistics planning, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed logistics planning on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed logistics planning as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing logistics planning on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following BEST represents your level of experience applying State Department supply chain management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in State Department's supply chain management techniques. I have education or training in State Department's supply chain management techniques, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed State Department's supply chain management techniques on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed State Department's supply chain management techniques as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing State Department's supply chain management techniques on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience in providing logistic liaison and administrative services to the recipients whom you serve? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of work experience in acquisition management policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in this area. I have education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area. I have used my organization`s acquisition process. I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals). I have led a complex acquisition team. None of the above. 12 Which of the following analysis tools have you used? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Project Process mapping software (e.g., Visio) Survey development applications Activity-based analysis tools Spreadsheets Databases None of the above 13 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.