Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Central Accounts Administrator communicates with managers from multiple Federal Prison Industries (FPI) locations and factories, senior officials of other federal agencies, as well as procurement and financial managers. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised suppliers of contractual issues affecting payment or receipt against contracts or delivery orders; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on accounts payable or receivable issues; and/or I have answered general questions from institution or Central Office staff or equivalent. I have negotiated with commercial vendors; and/or I have recommended system design changes to information technology workgroups; and/or I have communicated with others his/her professional opinions on contractors; and/or I have presented a financial review to the Board of Directors or other comparable body; and/or I have met with senior management to develop long range receivable, collection and budget plans. I have briefed supervisor on accounting information such as account reconciliations, changes in reporting requirements, or budget information; and/or I have assisted other staff on using automated systems; and/or I have coordinated efforts with others in completing office projects. None of the above. 6 The Central Accounts Administrator must prepare appropriate reports and narrative material on both a recurring and on an as needed basis, often with little or no advance notice. He/she develops detailed policies and procedures related to system application and user instructions for applicable accounts receivable and accounts payable systems. &nbsp; He/she prepares correspondence for staff at various levels as well as correspondence for governmental agencies and non-governmental entities. &nbsp; The Central Accounts Administrator writes reports, technical documents, lesson plans, contracts and memorandums. &nbsp; &nbsp;F rom the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written responses for solicited feedback from other government agencies on proposed changes; and/or I have provided responses to external audit findings; and/or I have drafted or updated national policies. I have written correspondence for institution executive staff; and/or I have written lesson plans for national conferences; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency. I have provided written updates on projects to supervisor; and/or I have composed general memorandums to staff regarding internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared work schedules. I have composed documents to area personnel about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written technical requirements for contracting; and/or I have prepared memorandums to vendors; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals within the agency. I have provided written responses for requests to update policies or institution supplements, or equivalent; and/or I have prepared Institution Duty Officer (IDO) report; and/or I have prepared Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) narratives for submission to Central Office, or equivalent for review. None of the above. 7 The Central Accounts Administrator delegates and assigns duties for the daily receipt and collection of funds for the Federal Prison Industries (FPI).&nbsp; He/she plans and directs assignments of accounts payable operations, directs policy development and implementation, ensures internal controls are being used by subordinate staff, leads research, and ensures the transfer of funds is collected.&nbsp; The Central Accounts Administrator ensures daily billings for goods and services are completed.&nbsp; He/she schedules, coordinates and balances the work of the accounts payable and accounts receivable staff to ensure effective use of resources.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed subordinates or others in maintaining sub-ledgers or filing; and/or I have assisted with prioritizing workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have reviewed and recommended adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have performed long-range planning and goals for the organization; and/or I have taught a formal course to subordinate staff; and/or I have coordinated the workload of staff in accomplishing the goals of the organization; and/or I have implemented changes to policy to assist in meeting the goals of the organization; and/or I have oversaw implementation of information system resources; and/or I have provided continuing evaluation, revision, improvement, or adjustment of financial systems. I have reviewed current accounting operations to provide feedback on proposed new procedures or to adjust existing procedures; and/or I have assisted in planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated tasks for staff to complete a special project prior to due date. None of the above. 8 The Central Accounts Administrator formulates short and long term goals to meet the Debt Collection Improvement Act.&nbsp; This includes analysis of financial data including receivable aging balances, cash forecasts, invoicing methods, and improving collection times. He/she prepares and analyzes accounts payable data to assist with compliance of the Prompt Payment Act.&nbsp; This includes accounts payable aging balances and credit card billings.&nbsp; He/she prepares analysis of financial data, identifies discrepancies and implements programs necessary to achieve established goals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed financial process and made recommendations for improvements which were adopted by management; and/or I have prepared cash forecasts used to evaluate programs or operations; and/or I have prepared accounts payable projections used in cash management analysis; and/or I have identified discrepancies in financial data and recommended changes to reporting procedures; and/or I have prepared trend analysis used by management in preparing organizational goals; and/or I have developed and implemented financial programs which improved organizational results. I have maintained general ledgers; and/or I have prepared financial reports; and/or I have managed or processed accounts payable and receivables; and/or I have reconciled accounts and bank statements; and/or I have processed payments. I have assisted with the development of cost saving initiatives that were adopted by management; and/or I have compiled available financial projections for the fiscal year to upper management, including Central Office, or equivalent; and/or I have projected operating levels for a factory's future years of sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures; and/or I have prepared budgets that became the basis for corporate case planning and capital funding decisions; and/or I have identified and resolved production issues/problems. None of the above. 9 The Central Accounts Administrator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. This will include goal setting, monitoring of progress toward stated goals, and administering personnel matters, as needed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate's job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate(s); and/or I have communicated applicable information/updates to subordinates. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established an individualized plan for improvement to include follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught formal classes to staff related to factory operations; and/or I have reorganized staff duties, within a section, to effectively utilize individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have participated as a mentor in an agency recognized mentor/protegee program; and/or I have developed job evaluation procedures. I have counseled employees on work performance while supervising employees at a facility; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have completed required progress reviews and annual performance appraisals; and/or I have supervised other workers as needed. None of the above. 10 The Central Accounts Administrator is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the financial management/accounts receivable/accounts payable accounting process.&nbsp; He/she ensures the integrity of the accounting and internal control systems and the accuracy and completeness of resulting reports that are sent to the Agency, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Congress and other agencies that detail the financial status of the Federal Prison Industries (FPI). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied general accounting principles to distinguish between capital leases and operating leases; and/or I have reviewed/analyzed monthly financial statements such as profit and loss statements or reconciliation/subsidiary reports; and/or I have researched and resolved critical accounting issues; and/or I have developed and monitored budget plan(s); and/or I have maintained an accounting system such as cost accounting and general ledger; and/or I have distinguished the difference between nominal (profit and loss) and real (balance) accounts. I have reviewed posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have reviewed the accuracy of recorded sales; and/or I have reviewed validity for cost of sales; and/or I have ensured proper valuation for inventory control. I have completed income statements, cash flow, and owner's equity sheet; and/or I have processed accounts payables and receivables; and/or I have reconciled accounts; and/or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have balanced bank report. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).