Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Specialized experience is managing a wide range of large scale, complex, and/or high visibility real estate transactions for commercial office space by researching, interpreting, and applying knowledge of real estate laws, regulations, and practices. This experience must include performing the following: Lease acquisition including negotiating, preparing and executing real estate contracts; Conducting market surveys and real estate site inspections; Performing real estate project management using project management tools to manage projects from inception to closeout; Conducting cost analyses for real estate transactions; Monitoring lease transactions and documents for procurement and financial accuracy; and, Analyzing and providing technical advice and direction in the development and implementation of real estate policy. 1 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-13 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-12 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 I understand that if I am selected for this position, I will be required to complete (within a designated time frame as determined by management) all training, certification and related administrative requirements required to obtain and maintain a senior contracting officer's unlimited warrant, per Federal Acquisition Regulations. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: Complete all required sections and upload your documents, then navigate to the 'Review and Submit' page to select 'Submit Application'. Note that incomplete applications will not be considered. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the &lsquo;Confirmation Page&rsquo; where you can download a copy of your final application package. You may edit your submission anytime before the closing deadline. If you do, you must return to the 'Review and Submit' page and select 'Submit Application' again before the closing deadline. For any mandatory long-answer questions, ensure your responses are supported by your resume. If you do not have related experience, enter "N/A" in the space provided. The system will time out after one hour of inactivity on any web page, and unsaved entries will be lost. Note that typing in a text box does not register as system activity. To save your work and return later, enter placeholder text in any empty text spaces and navigate to the next page. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).