Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your ability to develop and apply financial management techniques. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training developing and applying financial management techniques. I have completed formal education or training in financial management techniques, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and applied financial management techniques on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have developed and applied financial management techniques as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Developing and applying financial management techniques has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in developing and applying financial management techniques and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings Civic Organizations None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Developing, updating and executing portions of a project plan Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing work for technical adequacy and completeness Ensuring timelines and milestones are met Resolving personnel conflicts, differences or problems that have arisen in the work unit Coaching and mentoring individuals / team members to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implemented steps to maintain and improve morale None of the above 7 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impacts to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operation, provided advice on their impacts to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 8 Please identify the following with which you have knowledge or experience. Answer to this question is required Appropriations Law Prompt Payment Act Debt Collection Act (DCIA) Foreign Affairs Manual OMB Circulars Federal Travel Regulations Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) Internal controls Financial oversight / compliance Due diligence reviews None of the above 9 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Please select the response that best describes your experience in applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate. I have completed formal education or training in the Federal principles of Appropriations Law, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate as a regular part of a job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Select the work activities you have performed involving monitoring and assessing performance: Answer to this question is required Manages overall integrity and utilization of an electronic Key Management Infrastructure (KMI). Manages, administers, maintains and/or ensures the security and operations of database systems. Monitors accuracy of vendor billing. Identifies and corrects systems problems and/or coordinates resolution. Maintains security, integrity and efficiency of the operations of information technology and telegraphic systems. Monitors and repairs information technology systems in the event of malfunction. Oversees operations of information technology or telecommunications center. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform qualitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed qualitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed qualitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have had formal education / training and work experience in performing qualitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed qualitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed qualitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing qualitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing qualitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Please indicate which of the following types of activities/ tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications Engaged in the Strategic / Tactical Planning process Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units / organizations Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget Recommended the allocation of resources Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization 14 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Budget justifications Technical reports Policy Guidance Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Statements of Work (SOW) Contract Solicitation Capital Improvements Performance Evaluations Contractor Past Performance Evaluations Performance Awards Technical Review Reports Independent Government Estimates (IGE) None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.