Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in at least 4 of the following:&nbsp; (1) Performing field inspections of proposed projects and participating in accident investigations in controlled facilities when hazardous or unknown substances are involved; (2) Planning and managing policies and programs involving: hazardous building materials, indoor air quality, exposure assessments and medical surveillance; (3) Preparing written reports based upon the analysis of data acquired and the prediction of probable effects of exposures on the health and well-being of workers; (4) Administering an industrial hygiene training program and disseminating&nbsp;information and exchange among health-oriented organizations and/or program offices; (5)&nbsp;Serving as Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent to ensure accurate and adequate oversight of contractor performance. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science. I possess a bachelor's degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. Courses in the history or teaching or chemistry are not acceptable. I possess a certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene(external link) (ABIH)). None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Are you certified in the Comprehensive Practice of Industrial Hygiene through the American Board of Industrial Hygiene? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Which of the following types of facilities do you have experience developing, implementing, managing and improving industrial hygiene policies, programs, and management systems for? Answer to this question is required Occupied office spaces Industrial or manufacturing operations (including processing facilities, boiler, mechanical spaces etc.) Facility maintenance shops Medical centers or laboratories Food service centers Schools or child-occupied facilities Construction Environmental remediation, renovation and demolition sites None of the above 3 Which of the following areas of safety and industrial hygiene or environmental management do you have experience in? Answer to this question is required Hazardous building material surveys and management (such as including asbestos, lead, silica) Hazardous waste operations Hazardous building material removal and remediation oversight Medical surveillance program planning and oversight Chemical hygiene and/or hazard communications programs Exposure assessment Hazard communication Personal protective equipment programs Respiratory protection programs Indoor air quality Ionizing and non-ionizing radiation Emergency preparedness, planning, response and recovery program Ergonomics None of the above 4 Please indicate which of the following tasks you have experience performing independently and have trained others in: Answer to this question is required I have reviewed and interpreted project specifications, work plans, and design drawings for compliance with regulations and building codes I have inspected construction progress for the purpose of identifying potential hazards and verifying the effectiveness of engineering controls I have collaborated with designers to resolve issues in renovation and new construction activities I have served as the design team industrial hygiene subject matter expert and providing written responses to requests for information I have worked with the design team to overcome safety or industrial hygiene design issues, coordination of various project trades, etc. I have performed commissioning inspections to ensure that design documents were followed and potential hazards have been addressed None of the above 5 Select the response that BEST describes your level of experience utilizing monitoring equipment in assessing workplace exposures and making recommendations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in this task. I have received training, but I have not performed this function on the job. At work, I have used and maintained direct reading instruments, sorbent sampling tubes and/or passive dosimeters in evaluating exposures and environmental conditions. At work, with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team, I have performed monitoring or laboratory sampling, analyzed the results, and performed mathematical calculations to arrive at an exposure assessment. I have independently developed sampling strategies and plans (including techniques and methodologies), performed monitoring, analyzed the results, and performed mathematical calculations to arrive at an exposure assessment and made recommendations based on the results. I have mentored or provided guidance to others in monitoring, result analysis and performance of mathematical calculations to arrive at an exposure assessment and made recommendations. 6 Which of following BEST characterizes your highest level of experience in planning and conducting risk assessments, evaluations and studies of complex, hazardous environments or tasks? Answer to this question is required I am knowledgeable in, but have not applied risk assessment techniques to work environments. I have conducted routine workplace inspections of a facility and associated equipment to ensure they comply with established checklists, guidelines and regulations. I have followed established protocols and criteria to assess hazards in work environments I have independently developed criteria and assessed a wide variety of complex safety, health and environmental issues in work settings without access to other safety or health professionals. I have collaborated with customers to develop criteria and assess a wide variety of complex safety, health and environmental issues in work settings. As the independent expert, I have identified obscure industrial hygiene, safety and environmental issues and developed solutions without access to other safety and health professionals using knowledge, work experience, and the effective use of risk assessment techniques in work environments to ensure the protection of employees, visitors, and or the environment. None of the Above. 7 From the following list of situations involving conveying information orally, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Briefed or trained employees on issues related to policy, procedures, and compliance issues or exposures. Supported supervisors in the conduct of safety awareness and training requirements. Briefed or trained mid-level management on issues related to legislation, regulation and policy. Briefed or trained executive management or agency directors on issues related to legislation, regulation and policy, as wells as anticipated impact on the organization. Prepared briefing documents for use in responding to Congressional inquiry. Presented to small and large audiences (over 75 participants) regarding issues pertaining to health and safety in the workplace. None of the above. 8 Please indicate the one answer that best describes your highest level of experience managing hazardous and health risk communications. Answer to this question is required I have yet to work in an environment where communications with groups of people other than employees or contractors was required. I have been involved in responding to perceived and actual hazards and participated to address concerns of tenants, employees, contractors, and/or other building occupants I have successfully served as the lead in hazard and health risk communications to large groups of individuals, as well as in face to face conversations with employees, bargaining unit representatives, and/or contractors. I have routinely consulted with others and lead presentation on actual or perceived hazard and health risk communications to large groups of individuals, as well as in face to face conversations with employees, tenants, trades and contractors, members of the public, high-level officials (such as agency heads and members of Congress), and other building occupants including young children and their parents. 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Select the response the BEST describes your level of industrial hygiene experience in analyzing data, interpreting facts, drawing logical conclusions, and making recommendations for corrective action. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have analyzed complex data, interpreted facts, and drawn logical conclusions with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have led team or group that analyzed complex data, interpreted facts, and developed logical conclusions with recommendations to management. I have independently analyzed data, interpreted facts, and drawn logical conclusions in making recommendations to management. 11 Select the response that BEST reflects your highest level of experience in providing customer service. Answer to this question is required I have developed and maintained relationships with customers that have common or consistent needs. I routinely provide advice and direction in a broad range of industrial hygiene compliance matters, including conducting complex industrial hygiene inspections. I anticipate and assess customers' needs and identify or tailor products and/or services to meet their needs. I ensure that all problems, questions, or complaints are resolved, including technical or complex issues. I have maintained relationships with customers with diverse and often urgent or emerging needs. I am confident and recognized as a technical expert through having provided moderate advice and direction in industrial hygiene compliance matters. I can assess customers' needs and identify or tailor products and/or services to meet their needs. I have resolved fairly complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints. As necessary, I direct the most complex problems, questions or complaints to the appropriate person and monitor progress through to conclusion. I have brief contact with customers with limited needs. I provide routine information about products and services related to industrial hygiene. I have resolved simple problems, questions or complaints. I direct complex or non-routine problems, questions or complaints to the appropriate person for actions. None of the above. 12 Please indicate which of the following regulations you have experience referencing and interpreting when managing industrial and occupational health programs.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Federal regulations (EPA, DOT, OSHA) State regulations Local regulations Consensus Standard (ANSI, ASHRAE, ASTM, NFPA, etc.) Agency or organization policy None of the above 13 Which contract management duties have you performed as regular and recurring part of your job? Answer to this question is required Preparing solicitation documents (such as scopes of work and request for proposal/request for quote) and cost estimates Supporting safety and industrial hygiene services provided by a contractor Serving as a contracting officer’s technical representative to review deliverables and invoices Serving as a contracting officer for management of deliverable and invoices None of the above 14 Please indicate which of the following tasks you have performed as a routine requirement for writing and publishing documents to address various and widely diverse target audiences ranging from trades to professionals and executives.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Composed project status summary reports Composed documents or correspondence of a business nature Composed fact sheets, marketing materials, awareness materials, etc Composed complex occupational safety and health correspondence Wrote reports or findings regarding occupational safety and health (e.g., accident investigation reports, materials to support legal filings, etc.) Wrote trade or professional association publication articles Developed technical manuals or other instructional materials Reviewed the written work of others for accuracy Created policy documents, standard operating procedures, and job hazard analyses None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.