Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to leverage artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and data science principles to develop and maintain models and algorithms in support of organizational initiatives.** Demonstrated ability to leverage artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and data science principles to develop and maintain models in support of organization-wide initiatives. Work included: 1) evaluating the appropriate data, method, and approach to organization/business problems; 2) converting business problems into data science problems, identifying what can be solved using machine learning or artificial intelligence; 3) refining and translating complex concepts, findings, and limitations into clear, actionable communications for internal management and/or external stakeholders; 4) developing technical approaches using AI services to predict, analyze, and solve complex problems; and 5) documenting decisions, processes, data, and issues for future reference and improvements. Answer to this question is required Independently and regularly leveraged artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and data science technologies to develop and maintain models in support of agency or organizational initiatives. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, routinely leveraged artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and data science technologies to develop and maintain models in support of agency or organizational initiatives. In doing so, conducted FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision, occasionally leveraged artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and data science technologies to develop and maintain models in support of agency or organizational initiatives. In doing so, conducted THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to conduct data collection, preparation, and analysis for use with artificial intelligence.** Ability to apply quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis techniques to conduct exploratory analysis, modeling, and data visualization. In doing so: 1) identified and collected appropriate data; 2) applied and explained the statistical and mathematical principles used; 3) selected appropriate models and identified when data is insufficient to reach conclusions; 4) developed a data analysis plan; 5) analyzed data; (6) summarized findings and other results; 7) designed and developed data collection methods and instruments; and 8) conducted observational analyses to explore/group data, test hypotheses, predict outcomes, and make informed decisions. Answer to this question is required Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed ALL of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Have conducted extensive analytical, evaluative reviews, and studies requiring expert knowledge. In doing so, performed at least FIVE (5) of the above. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to prepare and present reports and findings on complex technology topics.** Translated complex concepts and data findings into easily understandable and digestible formats. Written products took multiple audience factors into consideration in the form, formatting, depth, level of detail, and content of works. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared and presented oral presentations/briefings targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained complex data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, frequently briefed all levels of management, including senior management, teammates, relevant stakeholders, and potential sources on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost/benefit analysis and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to system and project requirements. Served as a data science subject matter expert and technical advisor on data collection. Under minimal supervision, prepared and presented oral presentations/briefings targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, frequently briefed management, including senior management, teammates, and relevant stakeholders on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost-benefit analysis and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to system and project requirements. Served as a subject matter expert and technical advisor on data collection. As part of a team, prepared and presented oral presentations targeted to diverse audiences. Presentations often facilitated and explained data collection requirements and issues or recommended solutions and explained their application to an organization. For example, briefed all levels of management, including senior management, on quantitative analyses and findings, providing a cost/benefit analysis, and responding to a range of questions regarding the ability to respond to project requirements. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to make recommendations based upon findings. Provides advice and guidance on improvement of infrastructure and processes to colleagues, management, and/or stakeholders, leveraging collected and analyzed data to make recommendations. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently and routinely analyzed operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Occasionally analyzed operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Assisted in the analysis of operations, processes, and procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. 12 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).