Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. I have a combination of graduate level education in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT have the experience or education described above. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Biological Sciences positions. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. Answer to this question is required I have completed requirements for bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college/university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following statements best describe your expertise on housing and care requirements of exotic species in zoo setting? Answer to this question is required I am considered a submit matter expert in developing requirements for maintaining animal care and welfare for the design and construction of animal care exhibits in a zoological park. I have provided direct input in developing requirements for maintaining animal care and welfare for the design and construction of animal care exhibits in a zoological park. I have served as a member of a team in developing requirements for maintaining animal care and welfare for the design and construction of animal care exhibits in a zoological park. None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your animal enrichment experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience being responsible for the development, implementation and assessment of enrichment plans for animals in an animal facility. I have experience assisting with the development, implementation and assessment of enrichment plans for animals in an animal facility. I have experience implementing enrichment plans for animals at an animal facility. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience caring for animals at an AZA-accredited institution? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and implementing protocols for and overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. I have experience overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. None of the above . 6 Which of the following best describes your experience observing ursids, felids or small carnivores for behaviors such as courtship, breeding, aggression, etc. in an AZA-accredited (or similar) facility? Answer to this question is required I have experience observing bears/carnivores for behaviors such as courtship, breeding, aggression, etc in an AZA-accredited facility. I have experience observing bears/carnivores for behaviors such as courtship, breeding, aggression, etc in a non-AZA-accredited facility. I have experience observing other animals for behaviors such as courtship, breeding, aggression, etc in a zoological setting. I have experience observing other animals for behaviors such as courtship, breeding, aggression, etc in another animal setting. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your level of experience managing and developing staff? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have participated on or led teams to develop and/or implement policies and techniques pertinent to improving or establishing animal care procedures and goals. I have assisted with or independently identified and recommended methods for streamlining work processes of an animal unit that have been accepted by organization management. I have participated on or served as facilitator or leader of teams or task groups to assess how workplace morale and recommend methods to maintain or improve morale of employees in my work unit. I have provided orientation and ongoing guidance to individuals on their specific duties and responsibilities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Do you have experience planning, scheduling, overseeing, and directing the work of others? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your animal training experience with animals? Answer to this question is required I have experience directing training programs and overseeing trainers in conditioning new behaviors with animals in a zoological park. I have experience independently developing training plans and conditioning new behaviors with exotic mammals in a zoological park. I have experience assisting with the conditioning of new behaviors with animals in a zoological park. I have experience maintaining behaviors with animals at a zoological park. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with animal-related publications and presentations? Answer to this question is required I have shared my animal care knowledge with peers by authoring and publishing animal-related articles for peer-reviewed publications or trade publications, or by giving presentations at conferences, workshops, or seminars. I have shared my animal care knowledge with co-workers by authoring and publishing animal-related articles for internal publications or by giving presentations at my facility. I have published articles or given presentations on non-animal topics. None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in record keeping, producing reports, and / or recording behavioral or health observations on wild or exotic animals or animals in a zoological setting? Answer to this question is required I have experience in designing and implementing record keeping documents and reports for animals in an animal facility; and/or I have designed and implemented a behavioral or health related project for animals in a zoological setting. I have experience in designing and implementing record keeping documents and reports for animals and/or I have designed and implemented a behavioral or health related project for animals in situ (wild) project. I have experience in record keeping, documentation and reports for animals in an animal facility; and/or I have participated in a behavioral or health related project for animals in a zoological setting. I have experience maintaining written records as directed in an animal facility. None of the above 12 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, and recommendations to a supervisor or higher management. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have also made recommendations to supervisors, curators, or higher management. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports, and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have experience writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have not performed any of the tasks above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.