Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 1 [328] Choose the statement that best describes your education and general experience. Answer to this question is required I possess a high-school diploma or equivalent. I possess one year of education above the high school level. I possess six months of general experience as describe in the vacancy announcement. I possess a combination of general experience as described in the vacancy announcement and education above the high school level. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 04 1 [329] Choose the statement that best describes your education and general experience that qualifies you for this GS-04 position. Answer to this question is required I possess two full years of education above the high school level. I possess one full year of general experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of general experience as described in the vacancy announcement and education above the high school level. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 05 1 [337] Choose the statement that best describes your education and experience that qualifies you for this GS-05 position. Answer to this question is required I completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor`s degree. I possess at least three years of general experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least GS-04 in the federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of post high-school education and experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 07 1 [338] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades 1 [73294] Select the Student Trainee Series that you are interested in being considered for.&nbsp;&nbsp;Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Social Science (0199) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Economist; Social Sciences or similar fields) Human Resources Management (0299) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Human Resources; Equal Opportunity; Labor Relations; Government; Policy or similar fields) Administration and Office Support (0399) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Human Resources; Management; Administration; Sciences; Research; Government; Policy or similar fields) Financial Management (0599) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Finance; Budget; Auditing, Accounting; Pay or similar fields) Engineering and Architectural (0899) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Civil; Chemical; General; Aerospace; Electrical Mechanical; Mechanical Corrosion; Metallurgical and Materials; Petroleum Engineering; or students with an interest in oil and Liquified Natural Gas (LNG)) Business and Industry (1199) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Business; Procurement; Contracting or similar fields) Mathematics and Statistics (1599) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Statistics; Mathematics; Data Science, Database Management or similar fields) Transportation (2199) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Transportation Safety, Transportation Specialist; Railroad Safety; Highway Safety; Traffic Management; Aviation or similar fields) Information Technology Management (2299) Student Trainee Series (e.g. Information Technology; Computer Science; Cybersecurity or similar fields) Safety Inspector Trainee (1899) None of the above. 2 [63828]If you are graduating in the upcoming spring semester then you must provide proof of continued education in the next semester/quarter in another qualifying degree program (e.g. letter of application or acceptance, etc.) with your application or you will be disqualified from further consideration. If applicable, did you provide the required provide proof of continued education with your application? Answer to this question is required Yes No Not applicable [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 3 [73215] Please select the statement that best describes your projected educational level for the&nbsp; Fall 2026 academic term. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a high school diploma program. I have received my high school diploma or equivalent and am accepted for enrollment/enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a full or half-time basis. At the end of the current semester, I will have received my high school diploma or equivalent and am accepted for enrollment/enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a full or half-time basis. I have completed one academic year of post high school study. I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed one academic year of post high school study. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed two academic years of post high school study OR I have received an associate's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed two academic years of post high school study OR I have received an associate's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed four academic years of post high school study OR I have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed four academic years of post high school study OR I have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed one academic year of graduate level education; OR have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) with Superior Academic Achievement; OR five academic years of pre-professional study. I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed one academic year of graduate level education; OR have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) with Superior Academic Achievement; OR five academic years of pre-professional study. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed two academic years of graduate level education; OR received a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as LL.B. or J.D.) in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed two academic years of graduate level education; OR received a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as LL.B. or J.D.) in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree AND one academic year of progressively higher level education beyond a master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR three academic years of progressive graduate level education leading to a doctorate in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. At the end of the current semester, I will have completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree AND one academic year of progressively higher level education beyond a master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR three academic years of progressive graduate level education leading to a doctorate in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 4 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 6 [41890] To be eligible for this position you must currently be a student accepted for enrollment or currently enrolled and seeking a degree in a qualifying education institution, on a full or half-time basis. Select the response that best describes your eligibility. You must provide supporting documentation to support your answer. Answer to this question is required I have been accepted as a degree seeking student in a qualifying educational institution on a full or half-time basis, but have not yet started attending school. I am currently enrolled on a full or half-time basis and seeking a degree in a qualifying educational institution. I am an awardee of the Harry S. Truman Foundation Scholarship Program. I am not currently accepted for enrollment nor currently enrolled at a qualifying educational institution. 7 [59327] Choose the statement that best describes your current level of education. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a high school diploma program. I have received my high school diploma or equivalent and am accepted for enrollment/enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a full or half-time basis. I have attached my proof of enrollment for verification. I have completed one academic year of post high school study. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed two academic years of post high school study OR I have received an associate's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed four academic years of post high school study OR I have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent). I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed one academic year of graduate level education; OR have received a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) with Superior Academic Achievement; OR five academic years of pre-professional study. I have attached my transcripts for verification I have completed two academic years of graduate level education; OR received a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as LL.B. or J.D.) in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I have completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree AND one academic year of progressively higher level education beyond a master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR three academic years of progressive graduate level education leading to a doctorate in a field directly related to the position being filled. I have attached my transcripts for verification. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 8 [18736] What is the estimated graduation date for your current degree? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 [59861] What is your cumulative GPA (on a 4.0 scale)? You must upload a copy of your transcript for verification. Answer to this question is required 3.5 or above 3.0 – 3.4 2.5 – 2.9 2.0 – 2.4 1.9 or below Not applicable - accepted for enrollment 10 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 13 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 14 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 15 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 16 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 17 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 18 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 18.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 18.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 18.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer 19 [62388] I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be denied an appointment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above. No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).