Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to communicate in Hebrew and English.** Demonstrated ability to read, understand, and use Hebrew language in order to provide research services to individuals both within and outside the organization. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience reading and using Hebrew as well as English in a professional environment (e.g., through publications and presentations). Some experience reading and using Hebrew and related Jewish languages as well as English in a professional environment. For example, completed coursework and training at the college or graduate level or equivalent experience to provide research services. Ability to read and/or use Hebrew and English languages in a professional setting. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of Israel, Judaism, and Jewish countries.** Applied knowledge of Israel, Judaism, and Jewish history, culture, politics, and literature to provide reference &lrm;services, evaluate and develop collections, and/or other professional experience. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of Israel, Judaism, and Jewish countries by providing reference and/or research services, evaluating, AND developing collections requiring knowledge of languages and dialects collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of Israel, Judaism, and Jewish countries by providing reference and/or research services requiring knowledge of languages and dialects collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of Israel, Judaism, and Jewish countries in a professional setting or through collegiate or graduate level coursework pertaining to languages and dialects spoken in those countries. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to supervise, develop, and lead a workforce.** Supervised, developed, and lead a workforce within a government agency or corporation. In doing so, performed these functions: (1) established performance standards, guidelines, &amp; expectations; (2) directed daily operations, assigned work, and evaluated performance and outcomes; (3) provided coaching, mentoring, and informal/formal feedback; (4) resolved employee concerns, complaints, and grievances promptly; (5) advised and counseled staff on work-related and administrative matters; (6) reviewed and approved/denied leave and other personnel actions; (7) oversaw processes to ensure efficiency, compliance, and effectiveness; and (8) communicated organizational goals, priorities, and expectations to align with mission objectives. Answer to this question is required Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within a government agency or corporation and in so doing, exercised ALL of the activities listed above for at least THREE (3) years. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within a government agency or corporation and in so doing, exercised SEVEN (7) or SIX (6) of the activities listed above for at least TWO (2) years. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within a government agency or corporation and in so doing, exercised FIVE(5) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above for at least ONE (1) year. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge and application of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library and information science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts, and techniques to manage functions and implement programs related to reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, or collection development. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a broad range of a major agency and/or library systems environment’s functions and programs. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library systems environment. Demonstrated basic or a general knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a library program. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide public programs outreach and consultation and liaison services. Planned and produced public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals such as: 1) librarians, 2) authors, 3) editors, 4) publishers, and 5) scholars and teachers to share resources and information on the political, social, cultural and scientific trends in the region. Answer to this question is required As the principal liaison for an agency, organization or cultural institution, independently planned and produced public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Developed and maintained professional relationships with ALL of the above individuals to share information and resources. Played a key role in planning and producing public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Maintained professional relationships with ALL of the above individuals to share information and resources. As part of a team, assisted in planning and producing public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Maintained professional relationships with individuals internal to an agency, organization or cultural institution to share information and resources. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products related to library services. Examples include: 1) policies and procedures, 2) planning documents, 3) reports, 4) memoranda and external correspondence, 5) analyses, 6) technical proposals, 7) statistical reports, 8) project execution requirements, 9) guidelines on information and research requests, 10) performance appraisals, and 11) original research. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote at least SEVEN (7) of the above documents. As a principal author, independently wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents. As principal author, independently wrote THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above documents. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).