Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position; AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A and B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Chief, UNICOR Procurement Branch, must possess the ability to effectively converse with a variety of individuals both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, persuade and provide information to others on the vision, mission and objectives of the UNICOR Procurement Branch. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group which included members of the upper management/executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have given formal presentations to the executive staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have given formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees; and/or I have advised institution executive staff on economic and environmental impacts regarding projects at their facility. I have represented industries as the procurement policy expert in high level agency and Department of Justice (DOJ) program planning meetings and presentations; and/or I have provided overall guidance for the management direction of the industries’ excess and surplus property program, and disposal of real and personal property; and/or I have advised the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Controller, General Counsel, Business Group General Manager, Factory Management, and the Procurement Office regarding the organization, performance, direction, and coordination of broad contractual and property issues. I have advised the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as to whether goals are being achieved; and/or I have presented an oral briefing during a congressional subcommittee meeting on issues having major organization/agency impact; and or I have served as chief negotiator with agency/organization union officials on national level bargaining issues/concerns; and/or I have chaired work groups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs. I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the senior staff/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. None of the above. 6 The Chief, UNICOR Procurement Branch, prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, policy and procedural guides. They must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, agency executives, managers, private sector entities, line staff, and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written documentation which justified agency/institution/organization action during a third party hearing; and/or I have independently written and prepared technical documentation and correspondence which were utilized without change; and/or I have written materials used in procurement development training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have documented findings during an external audit; and/or I have assisted other staff in preparing a highly technical report/document for executive staff and/or senior management. I have developed and implemented industry policies and standards to ensure a rapid flow of acquisition documents, and the wide dissemination of procurement information, so that an active program of contract planning and administration is achieved; I have assisted in presentations before the agency Director, Government Accountability Office, and Congressional members' key staff, officials from other federal agencies, principal executives of non-profit organizations, and key representatives and staff from congressional committees and state and local governments; and/or I have developed detailed financial analysis and business plans to support new product or service proposals. I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on unique procurement and property activities and systems; and/or I have led the development of complex contracts, memorandums of agreement and other business agreements in coordination with business units, and internal/external legal departments; and/or I have prepared written responses to congressional inquiries or media requests regarding company products or services; and or I have contributed to the development of training and educational programs for clients and account executives; and/or I have developed detailed written marketing plans for new and existing products; and/or I have independently developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for agency/organization staffing levels. I have prepared a position paper justifying business related issues practices made by agency/organization; and/or I have provided detailed written input for presentations by senior agency management for internal and external meetings; and/or I have reviewed complex contracts and business agreements and provided recommendations; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures explaining procurement-related laws and regulations; and/or I have drafted responses to congressional and judicial inquiries regarding a major segment of business related program or process; and/or I have prepared strategic plans which contributed to his/her agency guidelines; and/or I have authored response reports to oversight organizations such as General Services Administration (GSA), Department of Justice (DOJ), and Office of Management and Budget (OMB). None of the above. 7 The Chief, UNICOR Procurement Branch, must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at the Department of Justice (DOJ), Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP), Federal Prison Industries (FPI), and other federal, state and local entities. They will be required to interact with and develop and maintain professional relationships with the private sector. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups and tours; and/or I have served as a member of a committee or task force addressing issues affecting the organization or agency; and/or I have served on a task force to develop and modify programs; and/or I have participated in executive staff meetings and presented information in an acting capacity. I have collaborated with the Controller, for the establishment of policies and procedures to manage the industries real and personal property program; and/or I have negotiated complex contracts with potential customers and/or suppliers to bring a new product or service to market; and/or I have established and maintained working relationships with institution management and operational staff and all levels of corporate management in working with procurement and property activities and systems; I have exchanged information and negotiated with officials and staff outside the agency to resolve problems which arose during the performance of a contract; and/or I have met with community leaders and news media to ensure respect and confidence; and/or I have researched public and private sector markets to independently develop business opportunities to employ inmates/staff for future business development. I have developed innovative approaches to meet the customer and agency’s requirements to be cost competitive and ensure on time delivery of the product or service to the end user; and/or I have provided motivation and leadership to nationwide sales force to meet business plan objectives; and/or I have provided effective mentoring and coaching to subordinate staff to achieve maximum performance levels; and/or I have effectively coordinated the efforts of multiple departments and resources to achieve program objectives. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from varying background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have participated on a work group within a division which developed internal policy; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. None of the above. 8 The Chief, UNICOR Procurement Branch, is involved in assisting the Director with the responsibility for the development, implementation, and evaluation of programs and policies created for effective management of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP). He/she is responsible for gathering and disseminating information concerning a large variety of correctional functions and topics. The information gathered, analyzed and prepared is used for keeping management abreast of issues, preparing to address audiences, and identifying other issues that impact agency operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided oversight for acquisition planning, guidance and direction in contract delivery systems and acquisition policy; and/or I have assisted the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Controller, Business General Managers and Factory Management in developing management strategies, program plans, and acquisition plans; and/or I have performed an ongoing assessment of the industries contracting workforce to ensure that the professional standards set forth by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) , and the Department of Justice (DOJ) objectives and programs were achieved; and/or I have represented the agency or commercial corporation on all nationwide procurement and property matters associated with major acquisitions and support programs; and/or I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved the program. I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended an appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have drafted a proposal to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained; and/or I have supervised the chairing of or served on evaluation boards and technical evaluation panels evaluating prospective Architect/Engineer (A/E) and Construction Management (CM) firms; and/or I have developed plans and guided compliance with the National Environmental Compliance Act and related federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations for new or existing facilities. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding requests; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved; and/or I have supervised the gathering of information on rated capacity and system-wide crowding for the quarterly executive staff meeting; and/or I have collaborated with environmental professionals on the development of national standards to guide compliance with the National Environmental Compliance Act and related federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations for new or existing facilities. None of the above. 9 The Chief, UNICOR Procurement Branch must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program. I have provided assignments which required community exposure, such as public speaking opportunities and speech preparation; and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability; and/or I have delegated public speaking opportunities on site selection and new prison construction forums to subordinates; and/or I have assigned facilitator and work group leader assignments to subordinates. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for agency/organization; and/or I have developed and implemented a cross training program for employees in the department/section; and/or I have ensured all supervisors in the department/section received training in the Mentor Program; and/or I have provided subordinates opportunities to brief senior officials on technical areas, such as site selection, new prison construction or environmental compliance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).