Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Do you have experience that provided knowledge of basic laws &amp; regulations, law enforcement operations, &amp; techniques involving responsibility for maintaining order &amp; protecting life &amp; property. Specialized experience may have been gained on a police force; as a military police officer; providing visitor protection &amp; law enforcement in parks, forest, or natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other related work disciplines. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 3 Which is the highest level of experience you have in leading or supervising a team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have experience working as a member of a team. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have supervised the work of people assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have led teams that required solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of others. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience collaborating with others or working on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. I have had education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participate with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job 6 Which of the following best describes the highest rank you have held as a police officer? Answer to this question is required Private/Police Officer Corporal/Master Patrol Officer Sergeant (First Line Supervisor) Lieutenant (Second Level Supervisor) Captain (Senior Level Management) Major (Senior Level Management) Colonel (Senior Level Management) None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience managing police operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed crime scene security. I have supervised evidence collection. I have conducted patrol supervision. I have provided performance evaluations. I have managed time-and-attendance. I have conducted counseling. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing emergencies or unusual incidents? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following describes how you manage citizen complaints? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted internal investigations. I have counseled subordinate officers. I have conducted counseling. I have provided recommendations for discipline. I have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following describes your experience in managing personal and physical security? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted dignitary security details. I have conducted risk analysis. I have conducted threat assessments. I am knowledgeable in CCTV. I have managed entry-and-exit control points. I have not done any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing community oriented policing? Answer to this question is required I have experience in community problem solving strategies under direct supervision I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person consulted by others as an expert I have no experience in managing community oriented policing strategies. I have experience building community relationships as normal part of my duties. 12 Do you have experience interpreting policy or regulations to advise management and subordinates of the proper course of action? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of experience leading a large team of officers and officials within law enforcement. Answer to this question is required I have performed traditional duties which included reviewing and approving employee schedules, determining personnel assignments; evaluating performance; adjudicating employee issues; assigning work; and balancing the workload of personnel. I have communicated and enforced security procedures and policies. I have adjudicated policy matters, determined the appropriate use of force, and responded to sensitive personnel issues that exceed the scope and responsibilities of subordinates. I have attributed fresh perspectives and innovative ideas, communicating a clear vision for the future of the team and entire organization. I have ensured that work performed meets organization standards for protecting, securing, and mitigating incidents that could harm the public, employees, or other key stakeholders when visiting a controlled and managed facility or organization. I have invested in the professional growth of officers and team members. None of the above. 14 As a law enforcement manager, select the answer choice that best describes your approach implementing creative solutions to longstanding issues within your police department. Answer to this question is required Community Engagement and Partnerships Data-Driven Approaches Revising Policies and Training Transparency and Accountability Creative Staffing Solutions Public Perception None of the above 15 Which of the following describe your experience testifying while under oath in court or before a grand jury? Answer to this question is required As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county or local police department I have testified in court or before a grand jury. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county or local police department I have testified in a criminal case. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county or local police department I have testified in a criminal case that involved a suppression hearing. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county or local police department I have testified in a criminal case under cross examination. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county or local police department I have given a deposition. None of the above. 16 Which of the following describe your experience preparing charging documents? Answer to this question is required As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have assisted with arrests. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have made arrests. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have issued citations for Code of Federal Regulations violations. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have prepared charging documents for felony warrants. None of the above. 17 Which of the following describe your experience conducting interviews and interrogations? Answer to this question is required As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted interviews with victims about Part I and Part II offenses, as defined by the Uniform Crime Report. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have interrogated suspects about Part I and Part II offenses. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have interviewed victims, witnesses and suspects. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted a field interview. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted interviews with victims of sex offenses and child molestation. None of the above. 18 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education or training initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 19 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in interviewing victims, suspects, and witnesses to obtain facts and evidence related to criminal investigations? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in interviewing victims, suspects, and witnesses. I have completed education or training in interviewing victims, suspects, and witnesses, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have interviewed victims, suspects, and witnesses as a regular part of my job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have interviewed victims, suspects, and witnesses on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have interviewed victims, suspects, and witnesses as a central or major part of my work, I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task. 20 Which of the following describes your experience as a law enforcement officer with diverse populations? Answer to this question is required I have completed conversational courses in a language other than English. I have participated as a leader in community programs such as Boys and Girls Club and Law Enforcement Explorer Scout Program. I have served as an interpreter for a language other than English. I have served in a diverse community of cultures, ethnic, and socio-economic backgrounds. None of the above. 21 Which of the following describe your experience conducting a myriad of law enforcement operations, practices and techniques in order to maintain order and protect life and property? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have been formally trained in traffic direction and have directed traffic. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have responded to emergency calls. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted routine traffic stops. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted felony traffic stops. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have fingerprinted arrestees. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have photographed crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have fingerprinted at crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted searches of people incidental to arrests. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have conducted searches of crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have arrested individuals. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have instructed others in arrest procedures. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have collected, packaged and preserved evidence in accordance with chain of custody procedures. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have investigated incidents. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or local police department, I have identified security or crime hazards and took appropriate action. None of the above. 22 Which of the following describes your experience as a Police Officer for a Federal, state, or local government agency interpreting laws in order to identify violations? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have made arrests for violations of state or Federal laws that led to successful prosecution. I have read and applied departmental policies regarding state or Federal laws. I have read and applied traffic and criminal laws. None of the above. 23 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted formal training. I have directed crowd control. I have briefed subordinates and supervisors. I have testified in court proceedings. I have conducted interviews and interrogations. I have not done any of the above tasks. 24 Do you have experience managing crowd control during large events and emergency response? Answer to this question is required Yes No 25 Which of the following statements describe your experience conducting law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques in order to maintain order and protect life and property? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have been formally trained in traffic direction and have directed traffic. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have responded to emergency calls. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have conducted routine traffic stops. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have conducted felony traffic stops. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have fingerprinted arrestees. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have photographed crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have fingerprinted at crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have conducted searches of people incidental to arrests. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have conducted searches of crime scenes. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have arrested individuals. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have instructed others in arrest procedures. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have collected, packaged, and preserved evidence in accordance with the chain of custody procedures. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have investigated incidents. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have identified security or crime hazards and took appropriate action. None of the above. 26 Which of the following best describes your experience as a Police Officer? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have directed traffic during rush hour. I have patrolled the facility on foot, patrol car, motorcycle, or bicycle. I have operated radios to pass and receive clear-cut information. I have filled out reports on incidents of theft or accident. I have questioned individuals at the scene of an incident to determine the reasons for a call for assistance, establish the identity of injured parties, identify the nature of incidents, and take statements of victims, witnesses, and suspects. I have informed individuals of their rights as suspects and/or witnesses. I have performed traffic patrol and emergency response duties such as enforcing speed limits, assisting in accident scenes and taking statements from principals and witnesses, directing traffic and controlling the movement of vehicles and pedestrians at work sites, and observing and reporting traffic safety hazards. I have responded to duress alarms and subdued unruly individuals. I have assisted victims of accidents or assaults by providing first aid, calling for medical assistance, or transporting them to medical facilities. I have pursued and apprehended persons fleeing a crime scene or who are attempting to resist arrest. I have sought, detected, and protected evidence and witnesses at the scene of an incident. I have participated in short-term investigations under the control of detectives or investigators. I have conducted long and short-term investigations when solutions cannot be achieved during the course of a normal patrol shift. None of the above. 27 Which of the following describes your experience writing police reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have completed police incident reports. I have maintained a written log of events. I have written formal instructions for others to follow. I have written memorandums to peers or supervisors. As a law enforcement official of a Federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have completed a police incident report regarding a Part I or Part II offense as defined by the Uniform Crime Report. As a law enforcement official of a Federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have documented interviews or interrogations. As a law enforcement official of a Federal, state, county, or municipal police department I have documented serious personal injury accidents/incidents. I have written for a publication (school newspaper, articles, etc.). I have written training materials. I have successfully completed college courses that included writing narrative reports. I have never independently written a document. 28 Which of the following describes your experience, education, or training in applying Federal, State, and/or local regulations regarding detaining individuals suspected of committing wrongful or illegal acts? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 29 Do you have experience preparing reports of incidents and/or traffic accidents, and other documents, such as daily and weekly activity logs, and narrative and statistical reports? Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 Have you completed certified law enforcement training through a state or federally accredited police academy, or posses equivalent training that meets established legal standards and agency protocols? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.