Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector demonstrating experience leading, managing, or evaluating human resources programs, policies, operations, or strategic initiatives to improve organizational effectiveness, accountability, compliance, or service delivery. Examples include: coaching, mentoring, supervising, or leading staff members; managing, developing, implementing, or evaluating enterprise-level human capital programs. Advising senior leaders on HR strategy, policy, or operational issues; developing responses or action plans related to audits, inspections, evaluations, or external reporting requirements; or representing an organization on councils, committees, working groups, audits, or high-level briefings. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the following options related to skill in providing strategic human resources advisory services to senior leaders on HR programs, policies, operations, and strategy management initiatives , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience serving as an advisor to senior executives and management experience assisting with the development, analysis, or implementation of HR programs, policies, procedures, or strategic initiatives experience ensuring human capital strategies align with agency goals experience analyzing and identifying problems and developing solutions none of the above 3 From the following options related to skill in oral communication, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience delivering presentations to senior leaders, customers or government officials experience working with senior management on all aspects of human resources management programs, policies, and initiatives experience establishing relationships with individuals and groups both inside and outside of one’s organization experience serving on interagency working groups, committees, and/or panels, communicating and interacting with Executives, management officials, staff, and other Federal agency senior level staff and representatives on human resources issues none of the above 4 From the following options related to ability to lead, coach, or supervise subordinates either formally or informally , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience providing leadership, coaching, supervision, or managing a team experience setting work priorities, assigning and delegating work to subordinate staff or team experience serving as a team leader with responsibility for assigning work, reviewing work products, or developing team members experience leading, supervising, or coaching a team with responsibilities that include managing priorities; using subordinate staff to accomplish program goals; participating in hiring, counseling, training, discipline and performance evaluations none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).