Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the answer that best describe your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Experience in three or more of the following functions: a) assisting with and/or classifying position descriptions, b) identifying competencies and conducting job analyses, c) creating job opportunity announcements using automated HR systems, d) creating assessment questionnaires (structured resume reviews, narrative questionnaires, structured interview questions, etc...), e) reviewing application materials for eligibility and qualifications determinations, and/or f) adjudicating veterans preference; 2) preparing and processing a wide variety of personnel actions for Federal civil service employees such as accessions, promotions, reassignments, conversions, extensions, etc.; AND 3) responding to a variety of human resources inquiries from internal and external stakeholders and applicants. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the second year of progressively higher graduate study and appropriate specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Select the types of personnel actions you have independently coded and processed including the legal authority, nature of action, and applicable remarks using the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Accessions Separations Promotions/Reassignments/Change to Lower Grade Pay and Step Changes Corrections/Cancellations Realignments/Reorganizations Benefits Changes (FEHB/FEGLI/TSP) None of the Above. 4 I have experience with the following automated Human Resources systems. Answer to this question is required USAStaffing/Monster Hiring Management USAHire Other automated recruitment tools FPPS eOPF Other automated personnel systems None of the Above 5 Select the HR Operational areas in which you have experience consulting with customers to address issues, solve pay concerns and/or explain programs. Answer to this question is required Veterans Preference Leave Pay Setting FEGLI FEHB TSP Retirement Appointments OPF Classification Service Computation Dates None of the Above 6 I have experience advising hiring managers on pay flexibilities and recruitment/retention incentives in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Relocation bonuses Repayment of Student Loans Retention Allowances Superior Qualifications Highest Previous Rate (Wage Grade) Highest Previous Rate (General Schedule) None of the above 7 Please indicate the following staffing activities that you perform on a regular and reoccurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have worked with a hiring manager to determine selection criteria, position requirements, and documenting our findings in a job analysis. I have created vacancy announcements for federal positions in an automated applicant intake system. I have made applicant qualification and eligibility determinations and issued certificates of eligibles. I have reviewed applicant DD-214 forms and assigning veteran's preference. I have made tentative offers of employment for federal positions. None of the above. 8 The HR Specialist must have knowledge of the rules, regulations, and procedures of Federal classification. This knowledge is required to provide assistance and guidance to customers regarding position management activities and in preparing evaluation statements for a variety of Answer to this question is required I have utilized basic procedures involved in classifying positions; and/or I have reviewed position descriptions to determine if they were written in the proper format; and/or I have assisted in preparing and maintaining position description coversheets and made proper determination for coding; and/or I have assisted in scheduling and conducting classification reviews. I have reviewed classification actions for accuracy of series and grade determination; and/or I have discussed classification findings with management and employees; and/or I have correctly determined appropriate classification standards for use in evaluating positions. I have assisted other specialists in identifying the appropriate classification standards to use in classifying a position; and/or I have demonstrated ability to analyze and interpret classification information; and/or I have observed and assisted other Human Resources staff in preparing for and conducting a desk audit. None of the above. 9 Please select the response that best describes your work experience in classifying Federal jobs using Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) position classification standards, Classifiers Handbook and other OPM guidance. Answer to this question is required I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level. Qualifying experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Advising management on recruitment strategies and hiring authorities including Delegated Examining (DE), Merit Promotion (MP), and government-wide special hiring authorities for excepted and competitive service positions; 2) Experience in all the following staffing functions: a) classifying position descriptions, b) identifying competencies and conducting job analyses, c) creating assessment questionnaires, d) creating job opportunity announcements using automated HR systems, e) reviewing application materials for eligibility and qualifications determinations, f) adjudication of veterans’ preference, and g) creating certificate of eligible applicant lists; AND 3) preparing, reviewing, and processing a wide variety of personnel actions and ensure accuracy of information and compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please select the types of written products that you have independently produced. Answer to this question is required General correspondence Evaluation statements used to support classification decisions Directives, policies, procedures and instructions Vacancy announcements Responses to complaints from employees or applicants Employee notices or newsletter articles Responses to congressional inquiries Responses to FOIA or Discovery requests None of the above 4 I have utilized Monster Hiring Management or another automated recruiting system to: Answer to this question is required Prepare vacancy announcements Rate applications Develop applicant questionaires Add questions to the Library Run analytical reports Calculate the weighting of responses Serve as the Database Administrator Prepare Certificates Datamine applicant information Develop templates None of the Above 5 I have worked closely and effectively with managers to determine their needs and to provide timely, quality advice and assistance. Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 I have experience with the following automated Human Resources systems. Answer to this question is required USAStaffing/Monster Hiring Management USAHire Other automated recruitment tools FPPS eOPF Other automated personnel systems None of the Above 7 Select the types of personnel actions you have independently coded and processed including the legal authority, nature of action, and applicable remarks using the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Accessions Separations Promotions/Reassignments/Change to Lower Grade Pay and Step Changes Corrections/Cancellations Realignments/Reorganizations Benefits Changes (FEHB/FEGLI/TSP) None of the Above. 8 I have substantial experience applying the rules and regulations for and hiring individuals under each of the following hiring authorities: Answer to this question is required Delegated Examining Merit Promotion Veterans Employment Programs CTAP/ICTAP Excepted Service Employment Recent Graduate or Intern (Pathways Program) Persons with Disabilities Intergovernmental Personnel Act Program None of the above 9 Have you developed, prepared, and given formal briefings or presentations on HR programs or initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have experience advising hiring managers on pay flexibilities and recruitment/retention incentives in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Relocation bonuses Repayment of Student Loans Retention Allowances Superior Qualifications Highest Previous Rate (Wage Grade) Highest Previous Rate (General Schedule) None of the above 11 The HR Specialist must have knowledge of the rules, regulations, and procedures of Federal classification. This knowledge is required to provide assistance and guidance to customers regarding position management activities and in preparing evaluation statements for a variety of Answer to this question is required I have utilized basic procedures involved in classifying positions; and/or I have reviewed position descriptions to determine if they were written in the proper format; and/or I have assisted in preparing and maintaining position description coversheets and made proper determination for coding; and/or I have assisted in scheduling and conducting classification reviews. I have reviewed classification actions for accuracy of series and grade determination; and/or I have discussed classification findings with management and employees; and/or I have correctly determined appropriate classification standards for use in evaluating positions. I have assisted other specialists in identifying the appropriate classification standards to use in classifying a position; and/or I have demonstrated ability to analyze and interpret classification information; and/or I have observed and assisted other Human Resources staff in preparing for and conducting a desk audit. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level. Qualifying experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Advising management on recruitment strategies and hiring authorities including Delegated Examining (DE), Merit Promotion (MP), and government-wide special hiring authorities for excepted and competitive service positions; 2) Experience in all the following staffing functions: a) classifying position descriptions, b) identifying competencies and conducting job analyses, c) creating job opportunity announcements using automated HR systems, d) reviewing application materials for eligibility and qualifications determinations, e) adjudication of veterans’ preference, and f) creating certificate of eligible applicant lists; 3) processing and reviewing a wide variety of personnel actions; AND 4) conducting reviews to ensure recruitment actions, case files, and personnel actions are accurate, complete, and compliant with federal requirements and agency guidelines. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please select the types of written products that you have independently produced. Answer to this question is required General correspondence Evaluation statements used to support classification decisions Directives, policies, procedures and instructions Vacancy announcements Responses to complaints from employees or applicants Employee notices or newsletter articles Responses to congressional inquiries Responses to FOIA or Discovery requests None of the above 4 I have utilized Monster Hiring Management or another automated recruiting system to: Answer to this question is required Prepare vacancy announcements Rate applications Develop applicant questionaires Add questions to the Library Run analytical reports Calculate the weighting of responses Serve as the Database Administrator Prepare Certificates Datamine applicant information Develop templates None of the Above 5 I have worked closely and effectively with managers to determine their needs and to provide timely, quality advice and assistance. Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 I have experience with the following automated Human Resources systems. Answer to this question is required USAStaffing/Monster Hiring Management USAHire Other automated recruitment tools FPPS eOPF Other automated personnel systems None of the Above 7 Select the types of personnel actions you have independently coded and processed including the legal authority, nature of action, and applicable remarks using the Guide to Processing Personnel Actions as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Accessions Separations Promotions/Reassignments/Change to Lower Grade Pay and Step Changes Corrections/Cancellations Realignments/Reorganizations Benefits Changes (FEHB/FEGLI/TSP) None of the Above. 8 I have substantial experience applying the rules and regulations for and hiring individuals under each of the following hiring authorities: Answer to this question is required Delegated Examining Merit Promotion Veterans Employment Programs CTAP/ICTAP Excepted Service Employment Recent Graduate or Intern (Pathways Program) Persons with Disabilities Intergovernmental Personnel Act Program None of the above 9 Have you developed, prepared, and given formal briefings or presentations on HR programs or initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have experience advising hiring managers on pay flexibilities and recruitment/retention incentives in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Relocation bonuses Repayment of Student Loans Retention Allowances Superior Qualifications Highest Previous Rate (Wage Grade) Highest Previous Rate (General Schedule) None of the above 11 The HR Specialist must have knowledge of the rules, regulations, and procedures of Federal classification. This knowledge is required to provide assistance and guidance to customers regarding position management activities and in preparing evaluation statements for a variety of Answer to this question is required I have utilized basic procedures involved in classifying positions; and/or I have reviewed position descriptions to determine if they were written in the proper format; and/or I have assisted in preparing and maintaining position description coversheets and made proper determination for coding; and/or I have assisted in scheduling and conducting classification reviews. I have reviewed classification actions for accuracy of series and grade determination; and/or I have discussed classification findings with management and employees; and/or I have correctly determined appropriate classification standards for use in evaluating positions. I have assisted other specialists in identifying the appropriate classification standards to use in classifying a position; and/or I have demonstrated ability to analyze and interpret classification information; and/or I have observed and assisted other Human Resources staff in preparing for and conducting a desk audit. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have current delegated examining certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 I currently possess Office of Personnel Management Delegated Examining Certification that will not expire prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement. You must upload a copy of your certificate.&nbsp; Yes No No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 7 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 8 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 10 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 16 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 17 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).