Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 2 Do you have experience fabricating draperies and top treatments? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of sewing draperies. Answer to this question is required I have independently created a pattern and sewn complicated custom draperies (e.g., jabots, cornices) using patterned fabric. I have independently created a pattern and sewn custom draperies using patterned fabric. I have independently created a pattern and sewn custom draperies using solid-colored fabric. I have followed a pattern to sew draperies. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your highest level of upholstery trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading co-workers to complete a variety of upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods. I have assisted co-workers to complete a variety of upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods under general supervision and occasional inspection. I have basic experience in completing upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods. I have little or no experience in completing upholster tasks. None of the above. 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience upholstering furniture. Answer to this question is required I have stripped fabric and padding from furniture. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached fabric to achieve the contour and fabric covering requested by the customer. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached patterned fabric to achieve the contour and design focal point requested by the customer. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached fabric to achieve a tufted contour and fabric design requested by the customer. None of the above. 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience evaluating the framework of upholstered furniture for repair. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience evaluating the framework of upholstered furniture for repair. I have assisted a senior worker by removing fabric coverings and padding to check for loose joints or springs. I have independently checked the framework for loose joints and springs. I have independently checked the framework for cracks and proper techniques for tying springs. 7 Which tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Read emails Completed leave slips / time sheets Responded to emails Entered information into a work-order system None of the above 8 Which types of work orders have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Instructions for carpet installation Requests for the repair / recovering of upholstered furniture Requests for the repair / creation of draperies Requests for the installation of blinds Instructions for sound proofing walls None of the above 9 Which information have you read and interpreted to install carpeting, draperies, or upholstery? Answer to this question is required Room layouts Building schematics Design schemes Work orders None of the above 10 Which fabrics have you used to upholster items or sew draperies? Answer to this question is required Canvas Leather Silk Sheer fabric Nylon Velvet Embroidered material Vinyl Interfacing Black out lining None of the above 11 Which tools or equipment have you used to install draperies? Answer to this question is required Ladders / scaffolding Hydraulic lifts Tape measures Hammer drills Fasteners / Hardware None of the above 12 Have you assisted others by gathering tools for assignments and preparing work sites? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Please describe your experience in any or all of the following skill areas upholstery, drapery, and basic fabrication. Be very descriptive and include specific details. This experience should be reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.