Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please indicate the types of activities you have performed in support of senior level meetings: Answer to this question is required Created meeting agendas Prepared briefing books Prepared annotated agendas or similar materials for senior level officials Scheduled complex interagency meetings with a large number of attendees Scheduled intergovernmental meetings Created guest list for large meetings Created guest list for small meetings Reserved rooms and equipment None of the above 5 Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conferences? Answer to this question is required Make arrangements for meeting facilities, set dates, notify participants and arrange to provide the necessary supplies and equipment. Arrange travel and secure authorization for expense reimbursements for guest attendees, speakers, or consultants. Draft the meeting or conference agenda, draft presentation outlines, assemble supporting materials and prepare formal presentation slides and handouts. Arrange social functions held for conference participants. Attend the meeting or conference, record minutes and action items, publish final minutes, and follow up to assure that commitments made are carried out within agreed upon time frames. None of the above. 6 From the following list of problem-solving activities, please identify those you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Identified a problem and its cause Anticipated a problem and implemented a procedure to avoid the problem Implemented a process or procedure improvement Worked closely with individuals and/or groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and/or make improvements None of the above 7 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific external audience. I have written to defend a position . I have prepared and presented written findings / summaries of analyses. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to specific program personnel, subject-matter experts and/or management officials. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please indicate the types of activities you have performed in support of senior level meetings: Answer to this question is required Created meeting agendas Prepared briefing books Prepared annotated agendas or similar materials for senior level officials Scheduled complex interagency meetings with a large number of attendees Scheduled intergovernmental meetings Created guest list for large meetings Created guest list for small meetings Reserved rooms and equipment None of the above 4 Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conferences? Answer to this question is required Make arrangements for meeting facilities, set dates, notify participants and arrange to provide the necessary supplies and equipment. Arrange travel and secure authorization for expense reimbursements for guest attendees, speakers, or consultants. Draft the meeting or conference agenda, draft presentation outlines, assemble supporting materials and prepare formal presentation slides and handouts. Arrange social functions held for conference participants. Attend the meeting or conference, record minutes and action items, publish final minutes, and follow up to assure that commitments made are carried out within agreed upon time frames. None of the above. 5 Please select the responses that describe your experience with travel arrangements and authorizations. Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. Made domestic travel reservations/arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Made foreign travel reservations / arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Make travel and hotel reservations for large meetings/conferences. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system. None of the above. 6 From the following list of problem-solving activities, please identify those you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Identified a problem and its cause Anticipated a problem and implemented a procedure to avoid the problem Implemented a process or procedure improvement Worked closely with individuals and/or groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and/or make improvements None of the above 7 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 8 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific external audience. I have written to defend a position . I have prepared and presented written findings / summaries of analyses. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to specific program personnel, subject-matter experts and/or management officials. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.