Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to perform project management functions.** Applied knowledge of project management functions and processes to implement cultural heritage digitization projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of the following: 1) defined the project and developed project plans; 2) estimated and allocated resources; 3) developed schedules and timelines; 4) used computer-based tools to monitor and track progress; 5) worked within deadlines and budget; 6) developed communication plans and communicated with stakeholders; 7) worked and coordinated with project identified problems; and 8) developed and implemented risk mitigation plans. Answer to this question is required Managed multiple complex cultural heritage digitization programs and projects and applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of ALL of the above. Managed multiple complex cultural heritage digitization programs and projects and applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Managed a complex cultural heritage digitization project and applied industry standard project management techniques and process in the performance of AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interact collaboratively with others at all levels.** Collaboratively worked with others to exchange professional knowledge and develop solutions to common problems. Answer to this question is required Served as a principal liaison on digitization topics inside and outside the organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts to coordinate and share resources and information. Explained technical and specialized information to groups and persons inside and outside the organization with various levels of understanding or knowledge of digitization projects and digital lifecycle management topics. Maintained close contact with project partners inside and outside of the organization regarding all aspects of digitization. Led efforts to develop common solutions inside and outside of an organization. Developed professional contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships and explained technical or specialized information to groups and persons inside and outside the organization with various levels of understanding or knowledge of digitization. Led efforts to develop common solutions across stakeholders within an organization. Developed and maintained professional contacts or cooperative work relationships with persons inside and outside the organization and presented information to groups and persons with a similar understanding of digitization. Participated in efforts to develop common solutions across stakeholders within an organization. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to lead and supervise a diverse workforce.** Led, supervised and managed a diverse workforce and, in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production and accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved and disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates for positions, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality, and 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging diversity and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to organize, plan, and track digital projects. Planned, organized, developed, carried out, and evaluated a variety of new or enhanced projects for digital conversion, production, and distribution of materials. Led and coordinated project team efforts in accomplishing this work. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized, developed, implemented and evaluated two or more digital projects for a constituency having specialized requirements which had impact at the agency or institution level. Led and coordinated project team in accomplishing the work involved with two or more digital projects. Independently planned, organized, developed, implemented and evaluated at least two or more digital projects which had impact at the agency or institution level. Led a team in accomplishing work involved with at least two digital projects. As part of a team, planned and carried out at least two digital projects. Took a leadership role on at least one team involved in accomplishing the work involved with a digital project. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to identify and solve problems. Anticipated, defined, diagnosed, and resolved problems relating to information exchange and prototyping by engaging in the evaluation and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion. This includes the ability to generate and evaluate reasonable alternative solutions or recommendations and the implications of choosing each alternative; to select the most promising alternative; and to commit to action, even in uncertain situations. Answer to this question is required Independently exercised problem solving skills on more than two occasions and as part of a team on other occasions, defined problem areas, recommended alternative options, and evaluated the usefulness, effectiveness, and cost of the alternative options that impacted an entire government agency IT or other institution IT and/or digital media initiative. Independently exercised problem solving skills on one or two occasions, and as part of a team for other occasions, defined problem areas, recommended alternative options, and evaluated the usefulness, effectiveness, and cost of the alternative options that impacted an entire government agency or other institution IT and/or digital media initiative. As part of a team exercised problem solving skills that defined problem areas, recommended alternative options, and evaluated the usefulness, effectiveness, and cost of the alternative options that impacted an entire government agency or other institution IT and/or digital media initiative. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to research and analyze technical issues. The ability to research and analyze issues pertinent to standards and systems for digital library services and collections or digitization of cultural heritage materials. This also includes the willingness to acquire new skills and knowledge by staying current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital library services. Answer to this question is required Independently researched, collected, and analyzed complex data/information for digital projects, including those involving the digitization of cultural heritage materials. Analyzed technical information and manipulated extensive data to achieve desired results. Used results of analysis for making decisions and for preparing reports and briefings on digital projects. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to this field. Researched, collected, and analyzed data/information for digital projects, including those involving the digitization of cultural heritage materials. Used results of analysis to prepare reports and briefings on digital projects. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to this field. Researched, collected, and analyzed data/information on digital projects. Used results of analysis to prepare reports and briefings on digital projects. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to this field. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to write technical documents. Drafted complex and specialized documents and instruments using specified formats, elements, and technical language required by the job function. These documents included: 1) project plans, 2) work breakdown structures, 3) statistical reports, 4) program evaluations, and 5) communications plans. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required INDEPENDENTLY devised and wrote ALL OF THE FOLLOWING: 1) project plans, 2) work breakdown structures, 3) statistical reports, 4) program evaluations, and 5) communications plans for complex projects for an organization or a wider audience. Independently wrote new procedural documents and/or documents to explain pre-existing technical procedures to a production team. As PART OF A TEAM devised and wrote ALL OF THE FOLLOWING: 1) project plans, 2) work breakdown structures, 3) statistical reports, 4) program evaluations, and 5) communications plans for complex projects for an organization or a wider audience. As part of a team wrote new procedural documents and/or documents to explain pre-existing technical procedures to a production team. As PART OF A TEAM devised and wrote THREE (3) of the following: 1) project plans, 2) work breakdown structures, 3) statistical reports, 4) program evaluations, and 5) communications plans for an organization or a wider audience. As part of a team wrote procedural documents and documents to explain pre-existing technical procedures to a production team. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).