Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13 Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Designing and supporting complex, organization-wide data management, data governance, and/or data presentation architecture, including enterprise data catalogues, data warehouses, data lakes, or other data platforms; 2. Developing and implementing artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML) tools to facilitate data discovery, enhance data analytics, and/or support data science programs with large, complex datasets; 3. Providing technical support in the use of advanced statistical, analytical, computational, or data science methods to identify trends, evaluate data quality, solve complex problems, and support organizational or policy decisions; 4. Advising stakeholders on complex data, analytical, technical, or program issues and translating technical findings into clear recommendations for technical and non-technical audiences; and 5. Providing data subject matter expertise as part of multidisciplinary teams and projects involving data scientists, analysts, information technology professionals, project managers, contractors, or other technical and professional staff. 1 In addition to meeting the OPM educational requirements for this position, I meet the specialized experience criteria for the GS-1560-13 Data Scientist position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 GS-14 Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Designing and supporting complex, organization-wide data management, data governance, and/or data presentation architecture, including enterprise data catalogues, data warehouses, data lakes, or other data platforms; 2. Managing development and implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML) tools to facilitate data discovery, enhance data analytics, and/or support data science programs with large, complex datasets; 3. Implementing data governance, data quality, validation, data management, or analytical standards and processes across organizational units; 4. Providing technical support in the use of advanced statistical, analytical, computational, or data science methods to identify trends, evaluate data quality, solve complex problems, and support organizational or policy decisions; 5. Advising stakeholders on complex data, analytical, technical, or program issues and translating technical findings into clear recommendations for technical and non-technical audiences; and 6. Providing data subject matter expertise as part of multidisciplinary teams and projects involving data scientists, analysts, information technology professionals, project managers, contractors, or other technical and professional staff. 1 I qualify for this position as I meet both the educational and the specialized experience requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 15 GS-15 Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1. Designing and supporting complex, organization-wide data management, data governance, and/or data presentation architecture, including enterprise data catalogues, data warehouses, data lakes, or other data platforms; 2. Leading the design, development, implementation, or improvement of enterprise data platforms, large-scale data collections, analytical systems, dashboards, data models, or automated reporting solutions; 3. Managing development and implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML) tools to facilitate data discovery, enhance data analytics, and/or support data science programs with large, complex datasets; 4. Implementing data governance, data quality, validation, data management, or analytical standards and processes across organizational units; 5. Providing technical leadership in the use of advanced statistical, analytical, computational, or data science methods to identify trends, evaluate data quality, solve complex problems, and support organizational or policy decisions; 6. Coordinating and supporting implementation of data architecture, data frameworks, and technological infrastructure supporting data collections and complex datasets, including those containing large-scale or nationwide geospatial data; 7. Advising stakeholders on complex data, analytical, technical, or program issues and translating technical findings into clear recommendations for technical and non-technical audiences; and 8. Providing data subject matter expertise as part of multidisciplinary teams and projects involving data scientists, analysts, information technology professionals, project managers, contractors, or other technical and professional staff. 1 In addition to meeting the OPM educational requirements for this position, I meet the specialized experience criteria for the GS-1560-15 Data Scientist position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 OPM Educational Requirement Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. or Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I meet the OPM educational requirement. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).