Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Assisted in the development of plans and criteria for a subsystem of an operating, database or e-mail system. Reviewed and made recommendations to a project leader on network systems software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Monitored/Evaluated a system component of a local area network. Provided adjustments or maintenance on LAN or a mainframe system hardware. Reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or using a systems program. Provided evaluation plans input as a member of a workgroup or team. Designed, tested, installed and/or maintained software for a nationwide computer system. Ran teleprocessing monitors or application servers. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of relational databases. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of network databases. Developed software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested hardware systems for a major hardware platform. Evaluated software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested and configured application software and hardware. Modified an existing IRM system design as instructed. Modified an existing computer program. Worked with Agency's Internet, Intranet and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) development and usage. Monitored agency home page and used security packages and hardware devices to protect information on the web and EDI environment. Assisted in monitoring a system or program. Developed an operational manual, directive and/or agency policy to reflect system modifications and new procedures. Monitored compliance with information security requirements at the regional or local level. Assisted in evaluating plans for an advanced system. Reviewed performance data and compared with similar systems at other locations. Analyzed/examined procedures and policy and made recommendations for local policy. Assisted in the set-up and testing of software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Customer Service : Provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. Participated in staff assistance visits or IT program reviews to advise and improve operations at field locations experiencing problems. Adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate IT needs of the division/office/unit. Provided guidance to staff in modifying existing network design. Provided guidance to staff during the testing and configuration of network hardware from an existing template. Responded to information security and/or audit related questions received from field/region/high level external sources. Implemented and provided training or otherwise disseminated information to regional and local staff regarding their responsibilities for agency security program requirements. Advised management of newly developed cost effective alternative to present IT systems. Oral Communication : Conducted training or other presentations related to network systems. Made frequent contacts with private industry software development contractors or commercial software and hardware vendors. Presented information to manager located in outside agencies or private sector businesses. Facilitated a training class on a new automated system. Problem Solving : Participated in a workgroup to resolve a critical problem in a existing system. Served as a primary resource person for technical problems. Researched local/departmetn problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improve the effectiveness of a program. Recommended adjustments to staff duties to respond to immediate needs of a system problem. Prepared response to program review or other type of audit findings. Determined the vulnerability of local information systems. Researched local/department problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improved the effectiveness of a program. 1 In addition, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors Two (2) years of experience working in a network environment comprised of a predominantly Cisco routing, switching, and firewall infrastructure. Experience includes demonstrating proficiency in the configuration and implementation of Cisco Internetwork Operating System (IOS), Cisco Nexus Software (X-OS), Identity Services Engine (ISE), and Firewall Security Appliances. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, serves as a Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) liaison within the Department of Justice (DOJ), other government agencies, and non-governmental entities.&nbsp; He/she conveys Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) requirements and Information Technology (IT) priorities with Information Technology (IT) network and telecommunications professionals that serve as consultants and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). He/she communicates with Wide Area Network (WAN) providers to support, update, and configure the Justice Unified Telecommunications Network (JUTNet) as requirements dictate. He/she advises management of critical network infrastructure problems and recommends solutions that will cause the least amount of impact accessing mission critical network resources.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided informal training to co-workers and others on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have served as computer contact on routine or non-critical matters; and/or I have contacted vendor for release of new products; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one resolving routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have provided basic level troubleshooting instructions. I have presented an oral briefing at the department level on issues having major department/agency impact; and/or I have delivered clear and convincing oral presentations of agency priorities; and/or I have represented an agency and negotiated on its behalf in interagency workgroups with federal and state entities to develop agency Information Technology (IT) policy initiatives and systems; and/or I have chaired workgroups and project teams tasked with the responsibility of developing, modifying, and implementing agency-wide network infrastructure initiatives; and/or I have presented an agency position paper detailing streamlining procedures for increased efficiencies during a national conference or an Executive Staff briefing; and/or I have advised senior management of critical problems and recommended solutions associated with the network infrastructure; and/or I have interacted with senior management of outside vendors to develop standards, specifications, or policies. I have delivered an oral briefing regarding network infrastructure upgrades to accommodate existing and future requirements to upper management within the agency; and/or I have acted as a facilitator in a group or team setting; and/or I have participated on a workgroup or project team for design or troubleshooting complex network infrastructure issues; and/or I have knowledgeable in internal agency mission and network infrastructure funding requirements; and/or I have provided support to senior management representing the agency testifying before the department during budget justification proceedings. None of the above. 6 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, recognizes or uses correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling and communicates information in an organized manner. He/she produces written information, which includes technical&nbsp;material that is appropriate for the intended audience. He/she must have experience and knowledge of procedures developing technical documentation such as systems design, user guides, data flow diagrams, program specifications, and operational support documentation.&nbsp;He/she composes clear and concise documentation or correspondence involving complex technical information.&nbsp;He/she consistently and effectively tailors written products to a wide range of audiences and for various purposes to achieve the desired outcome. He/she proofreads and edits the writing of others and effectively explains complex technical material to a non-technical audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed data flow diagrams; and/or I have completed sections of larger reports for review by management (i.e., Information Technology (IT) use or proposals); and/or I have completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures; and/or I have revised established functional requirements documentation. I have prepared instructional e-mails to end users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine computer related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation. I have developed several end user guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide; and/or I have established complex functional requirements documentation (i.e., network software and hardware standards) that were used across the enterprise network; and/or I have developed a schematic layout of how the enterprise network is interconnected; and/or I have wrote technical contingency procedures to be applied by an agency, organization, or corporation (i.e., disaster recovery procedures). None of the above. 7 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;He/she builds and manages a workforce based on organizational goals and staffing needs. The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, ensures that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded.&nbsp;He/she takes action to address performance problems and manages a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee's job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the Performance Work Plan (PWP) system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated an in-house training class specific to the network environment that was designed to improve performance and career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale; and/or I have delegated tasks and projects with defined metrics and timelines that provided staff training of a new skillset. I have coordinated due dates for projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have as business requirements changed, modified staff assignments and tasks to meet new requirements; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring meetings to enhance staff skillsets; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have established, discussed, and implemented a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) to address deficiencies and afford the opportunity for improvement; and/or I have used conflict resolution process to resolve issues between employees. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates; and/or I have addressed individual strengths and weaknesses of subordinates; and/or I have counseled subordinates during regularly scheduled meetings; and/or I have adjusted employee duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have responsible for directing the work of others by leading or chairing a workgroup that involved the collaborating with other departments and divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards. None of the above. 8 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, evaluates, reviews, analyzes and manages complex high-profile Information Technology projects related to the security mission of a correctional or criminal justice agency. He/she places special emphasis on designing, implementing and supporting secure information networks. He/she has knowledge of principles, methods, and tools for evaluating information systems security features against a set of specified security requirements. He/she works with the Chief Information Security Officer to develop security certification and accreditation plans and procedures, documenting deficiencies, reporting corrective actions and recommending changes to improve the security of information systems. He/she has knowledge of methods, tools and procedures to prevent information systems vulnerabilities and restore security of information systems and network services. From the choices below please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured the latest information security policies and practices were being deployed and enforced on the network infrastructure, such as 802.1x authentication; and/or I have analyzed and researched the continued development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of industry standard security appliances and software; and/or I have configured and implemented Cisco Adaptive Security Appliances (ASA), Cisco Firepower Firewalls, and Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE); and/or I have instituted effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and information security technologies were put in place and followed correctly. I have installed Information Technology (IT) devices or software/hardware related to the security mission of an agency; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the areas of development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of high-tech large or complex inspection, intrusion and investigative systems and equipment; and/or I have participated in the development of effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and information security technologies were put in place and followed correctly. I have assisted in the coordination, analysis, research, and/or technical support for the continued development, acquisition, logistics, and field testing of high-tech large or complex inspection, detection and investigative systems and equipment; and/or I have assisted in the implementation of effective procedures to ensure that automated functions and information security technologies were put in place and followed correctly; and/or I have implemented audits of information security technologies or implemented recommended corrective actions. I have documented the configuration and application of firewall rule sets, Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) policy sets, and automated the notification of when critical assets within the network were no longer connected to the network; and/or I have developed and conducted audit or assessment procedures to ensure that information security technologies were operating as indicated; and/or I have leveraged network monitoring platforms such as Cisco Secure Network Analytics (SNA) to monitor devices to ensure they were not violating network security policies and monitored Cisco Catalyst Center to verify all Cisco network infrastructure were operating and compliant with the recommended software versions. None of the above. 9 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, is knowledgeable in network management services comprised of processes, tools, and personnel required to operate, maintain, administer, and secure a network infrastructure to ensure efficient and reliable network performance. He/she is responsible for network visibility, security, performance monitoring, automation, along with the ability to troubleshoot, manage configurations, and adapt to changing business needs.&nbsp;From the choices below please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed, configured, and monitored enterprise class network management platforms such as Cisco Catalyst Center, Cisco Secure Network Analytics (SNA), and Solar Winds/Orion within an enterprise-wide (1000 node or higher) network; and/or I have used large scale network management platforms to monitor the network infrastructure by detecting, isolating, and correcting malfunctions or failures within a network; and/or I have identified and mitigated the source of problems within the network infrastructure to include but not limited to faulty hardware, circuit bandwidth saturation, and misconfigured client/server communication. I have assisted in performing audits on infrastructure; and/or I have assisted in providing current installed hardware and hardware versions; and/or I have provided assistance using a network management platform to a Local Area Network (LAN) less than 500 nodes to discover network infrastructure devices (i.e., discovery of Cisco routers, Cisco switches, and Cisco firewalls); and/or I have assisted in establishing network baseline parameters (i.e., bandwidth utilization, interface speed/duplex mismatches). I have managed, configured, and monitored enterprise class network management platforms such as Cisco Catalyst Center, Cisco Secure Network Analytics (SNA), and Solar Winds/Orion within a medium-sized (500 node or higher) network; and/or I have configured routine and non-routine network management platforms to configure network infrastructure devices; and/or I have maintained and configured Cisco series network routers, switches, and firewalls; and/or I have reviewed business requirements and developed network management views and reports which were subsequently implemented on a medium-size network management platform; and/or I have added managed devices and removed devices that were no longer needed; and/or I have created different network views by geological location or device type, providing current Cisco Internetwork Operating System (IOS) versions, hardware versions, and configuration parameters. I have scheduled jobs to perform enterprise-wide updates (i.e., Cisco Internetwork Operating System (IOS) versions, configuration changes, network discovery, or searches for unauthorized devices on the network); and/or I have established complex network baseline parameters; and/or I have provided statistics for latency, bandwidth utilization, or interface speed/duplex mismatches. None of the above. 10 The Chief, National Network Communications Support Section, possesses knowledge of methods, tools for developing, scheduling, coordinating, managing projects and resources, inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance.&nbsp;He/she monitors schedules and tracks major project milestones and communicates with various stakeholders to ensure that projects stay on time and on budget.&nbsp;He/she identifies and plans for external and internal obstacles to project deliverables and delegates work to team members as necessary to adhere to project timelines.&nbsp;From the choices below please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted as a liaison between the project manager and support staff/contractors; and/or I have provided written updates on specific aspects of a project; and/or I have submitted written updates to project manager for accuracy and final review; and/or I have provided assistance in monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance. I have analyzed existing and future requirements for projects; and/or I have prepared a budget for a project, providing a statement of work that detailed the objectives; and/or I have provided project and budgetary justification (i.e., presented justification to senior management regarding how the project would benefit the agency and associated costs); and/or I have provided detailed schedule of when objectives would be completed; and/or I have monitored projects to ensure milestones were being met in a timely fashion; and/or I have identified and corrected problems as they arose, and provided detailed reports on the progress of a project. I have assisted others with designing and implementing networks and/or modifying existing networks; and/or I have at the direction of the project manager, assisted others with estimating resources needed to implement project requirements (i.e., standards, protocols, and equipment requirements); and/or I have analyzed statistics and recommended to others a method to make a network more efficient. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).