Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: (a) Providing leadership and oversight for a construction management team, including performance management evaluations, training, and technical advice and guidance on work assignments (b) Planning, coordinating and administering a multi-million dollar construction management program, including scheduling and management of resources; and (c) Advising and providing solutions to senior level management on major issues on construction projects and critical matters that cross organizational boundaries. 2 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required Professional Engineering (PE) certification Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) Certified Engineer in Training (EIT) Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Environmental Design (LEED) Professional in Project Management certification (PPM) None of the above 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leading employees performing construction management. Answer to this question is required I have not led employees performing construction management tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I led employees by overseeing construction management tasks assigned by the supervisor to make sure they were performed correctly. I led employees by assigning work and managing their performance. I have led a construction management team performing construction management administration and monitoring of construction contracts for compliance. None of the above. 4 Describe your e xperience enforcing safety regulations (e.g., OSHA standards), conducting safety inspections, and managing risk during construction activities. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work assignments. Provided guidance regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 6 Choose the statement that best describes your experience managing project controls for a multi-million dollar construction project. Answer to this question is required I have distributed project control documents such as RFIs and submittals to reviewers, compiled comments, and returned comments to the contractor for simple projects. I have managed the project control review process including oversight of the design team to ensure that all reviews are performed timely and that the review and workflow of the project control process is performed in accordance with the project plan. Project controls documents are processed and maintained in a dedicated project controls software computer program. I have developed, implemented, and monitored the entire project control process for large complex construction projects and have developed or assisted in the development of custom project control computer software for the project. None of the above. 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous construction projects. Established timelines and milestones for a construction project. Closed out construction projects. Monitored a construction project progress against a bar chart and critical path method schedule. Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance. Resolved construction contractor performance issues. Managed client expectations. None of the above 8 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have any experience managing construction management services contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Select the contracts you have administered. Answer to this question is required Project development contracts Service employee contracts Construction management contracts Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts None of the above 11 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval. Justified budgetary expenses. Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions. Completed a construction project within budget limitations. None of the above 12 Select the types of teams you have led to accomplish team goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Multi-discipline teams Teams composed of individuals with varying levels of skill Multi-level teams (e.g., subordinates, peers, and supervisors) Multi-organizational teams None of the above 13 Select the responses that describe your experience interacting with persons of varied backgrounds, cultures, or opinions to accomplish work goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have accomplished goals working with people from diverse backgrounds and cultures. I have accomplished goals working with persons from a similar culture but of a different race, gender, or ethnicity from my own. I have accomplished goals working with persons with socio-economic statuses different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues and/or clients with a native language different from my own. I have accomplished goals working with colleagues or clients who held different views from my own on important subjects or issues. I have accomplished goals working with persons who held a hostile or antagonistic attitude toward me. None of the above. 14 Select the documents you have independently written. Answer to this question is required Reports of Findings Cost-benefit studies White papers Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Bulletins Articles in research team journals Technical and non-technical report versions on the same issue Market research studies Scopes of Work or Task Orders Business correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) None of the above 15 For which audiences have you written professional documents (e.g., reports, white papers)? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors Subordinates External clients Oversight committees None of the above 16 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 17 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.