Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above Specialized experience is defined as having experience: &nbsp;Coordinates administrative aspects of office moves, office construction, and other facility improvements including furniture and short-term storage; Preparing letters, and reports and datasheets related to supply and purchasing of an administrative nature; and Utilizing purchasing regulations, methods, procedures and business practices to make purchases involving specialized and commercial items and services. 2 Which computer applications have you operated to maintain an inventory? Answer to this question is required Inventory management systems Work request management systems Facility management systems Financial management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft Power Point None of the above 3 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 4 Select&nbsp;all of the phases in which you have participated in meetings with various stakeholders and representatives. Answer to this question is required Project conception for design consultation Programming Space Planning Design Progress Furniture Selections None of the above 5 Do you have supply inventory experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: &nbsp;Utilizing knowledge of architectural, electrical, and furniture component plan requirements and specifications; Managing space, equipment, and workload planning;&nbsp; and Evaluating client needs on equipment and property use and providing recommendations on facility and design plans. 2 What procurement tasks did you perform? Please select all that apply.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance, furniture, equipment, and services. Provided direction and assistance to management and program managers on property acquisition, utilization, and disposal. Maintained property management records. Established deadlines and standards for acceptable work by contractors. Tracked contractor progress and quality of performance. Determined acceptability, rejection, or correction of work products and services that may affect payment to contractors. Performed market research and cost analyses and comparisons for procurement and maintenance agreements. Managed procurement for all purchases. None of the above. 3 Select&nbsp;all of the phases in which you have participated in meetings with various stakeholders and representatives. Answer to this question is required Project conception for design consultation Programming Space Planning Design Progress Furniture Selections None of the above Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: &nbsp;Utilizing knowledge of federal procurement and property management regulations and space planning standards; Using automated systems to manage inventories, procurements and other contracting data; and Evaluating client needs on equipment and property use and providing recommendations on facility and design plans. 2 What procurement tasks did you perform? Please select all that apply.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance, furniture, equipment, and services. Provided direction and assistance to management and program managers on property acquisition, utilization, and disposal. Maintained property management records. Established deadlines and standards for acceptable work by contractors. Tracked contractor progress and quality of performance. Determined acceptability, rejection, or correction of work products and services that may affect payment to contractors. Performed market research and cost analyses and comparisons for procurement and maintenance agreements. Managed procurement for all purchases. None of the above. 3 Select&nbsp;all of the phases in which you have participated in meetings with various stakeholders and representatives. Answer to this question is required Project conception for design consultation Programming Space Planning Design Progress Furniture Selections None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Which tasks have you performed to manage inventory? Answer to this question is required Physical counts of items Recommended items for surplus or disposal Verified reorder limits Identified dead items Checked items to ensure safely stored Maintained a file of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) None of the above 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interacting with others to explain inventory or supply policies. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interacting with others to explain inventory or supply policies. I have explained inventory or supply policies with assistance from a senior employee. I have explained inventory or supply policies to assist others in obtaining supplies. I have explained inventory or supply policies to justify reasons for denying purchasing requests or preferences. I have explained inventory or supply policies to individuals who are angry or demand that exceptions be made. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 4 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience performing a variety of office management and administrative activities in support of business operations for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the following specialty areas in which you have experience performing asset management duties: Answer to this question is required Facilities Management Architecture Engineering Construction Space Planning Acquisition Management Financial Management Performance Improvement Project Management None of the above 7 Do you have experience coordinating with managers, contractors, stakeholders and other external organizations to create and manage project timelines and ensure deliverables? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which project/program management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Developed statements of work (SOW) Developed independent government estimates Developed project timelines and milestones Created project plans Identified needed resources, such as for budgetary purposes Monitored and evaluated contractor work Monitored project progress and performance Verified quality of project deliverables Accepted deliverables for fulfillment of contract requirements None of the above 9 I have experience purchasing various equipment, supplies, and services through the use of a government or company purchase card. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.