Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience in building consensus and facilitating cooperative and collaborative relationships? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have strong leadership, teamwork, and interpersonal skills and/or experience in managing complex projects and working collaboratively with diverse individuals and groups. I have experience working with and/or leading multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have led and facilitated collaborative teams and relationships with required stakeholders. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience promoting and maintaining good working relationships with management, key individuals, or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with management, key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in promoting and maintaining good working relationships with management, key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with management, key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with management, key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). 5 Which of the following best describes your experience using interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in demonstrating interpersonal skills, resolving problems, coaching and mentoring. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in demonstrating interpersonal skills, resolving problems, coaching and mentoring, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your skill in working with a team to develop and deliver educational programs? Answer to this question is required I have led a team in making decisions about program or curriculum direction and facilitated the team’s work in developing and delivering a range of educational experiences. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering a range of 3 or more types of educational experiences. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering 1-2 specific types of educational experiences. I have participated as part of a team developing and delivering educational programs. I have no experience working with a team to develop and deliver educational programs 7 Which of the following best describes your experience or training designing comprehensive lesson plans, learning activities, or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards? Answer to this question is required I have not had course work, internships, training or work experience designing comprehensive lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards. I have completed course work, internships or other training designing lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as part of my job, usually with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert. 8 Which of the following represents your experience and training in K-12 Education? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have an education degree and have taught K-12 classes in a school setting. I have an advanced degree in education and have extensive experience teaching K-12 classes in a school setting. I have designed and produced instruction and educational activities for K-12 students in a museum or other informal setting. I have completed college-level courses in K-12 education. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of education theory and current teaching practices in informal education environments? (e.g. museums, science centers, etc.) (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have taken at least 12 hours of college-level courses related to education theory and/or teaching practices in informal education environments. I have work experience performing research in these topics. I have developed educational programs in informal education environments utilizing education theory and current teaching practices. I have assisted with or contributed to an article or other publication on education theory or current teaching practices. I have presented on one of these topics at a conference, meeting or workshop. None of the above. 10 Which statement describes your level of experience researching, developing and delivering materials using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches for K-12 teachers and students in formal and/or informal education settings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience researching, developing, and producing modern and contemporary art focused education materials or curricula for K-12 teachers and students using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches in formal and/or informal education settings such as schools, federal or state agencies, or museums. I have performed these tasks routinely under little supervision, trained others to do these tasks, and/or have been consulted as an expert on these tasks. I have experience researching, developing, and producing modern and contemporary art focused education materials or curricula for K-12 teachers and students using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches in formal and/or informal education settings such as schools, federal or state agencies, or museums. I have conducted these tasks with close supervision and review from a supervisor or senior employee. I have had training or experience researching and developing education materials using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches for K-12 teachers and students in a formal and/or informal setting in subject areas other than modern and contemporary art. I have undergraduate or graduate training to research and develop education materials or curricula for K-12 teachers and students using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches in formal and/or informal education settings such as schools, federal or state agencies, or museums. I have experience teaching inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered materials in classes or activities in formal and/or informal education settings. I have no experience researching, developing and delivering K-12 education materials using inquiry, discovery, or other student-centered approaches in formal and/or informal settings. I have extensive experience as a writer and an editor of educational materials. I have experiences as a writer and editor of educational materials. 11 Which of the following audiences have you taught from a lesson plan? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have taught a lesson plan for pre-K or Kindergarten students. I have taught a lesson plan for elementary school students (grades 1-5). I have taught a lesson plan for middle school students (grades 6-8). I have taught a lesson plan for high school students (grades 9-12). I have taught a lesson plan for college students. I have taught a lesson plan for an adult audience. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have had education or training in planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in carrying out educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have helped plan and implement educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution as a regular part of the job, independently, and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience working with internal and external stakeholders such as curators, security, health and safety, and/or facilities staff to support visitor services and/or educational programs in a museum or comparable educational institution? Answer to this question is required I do not work with internal or external stakeholders. Under supervision I have worked in cooperation with internal and external stakeholders to provide visitor services, programs, and exhibitions. I have independently identified both internal and external stakeholders and collaborated with them to develop strategies, policies, and procedures that support visitor services and/or educational programs at a museum or comparable educational institution. 14 Which of the following tasks have you performed (or assisted in performing) regarding the planning, development, and/or production of informal educational programs for multigenerational and multicultural audiences for museums, science centers, observatories, or other informal settings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Selection of topic or theme for program. Selection of the type of program (e.g. lecture, demonstration, hands-on activity, performance, etc.). Identification and/or selection of personnel and presenters to participate in the program. Identification of the appropriate audience for the program. Identification of learning objectives. Development of the budget. Development of content to accompany or augment the program (i.e. support materials). Recruitment and/or coordination of activities of volunteers or paid staff to carry out the program. Coordination of program logistics (e.g. drafting relevant paperwork to ensure programs are approved and staff members are informed, working with relevant departments to ensure the program is set-up properly, coordinating special needs for program participants; etc.). None of the above. 15 Which of the following describes your experience related to grant-funded educational projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience as the primary developer and writer of successful grant proposals or fund raising campaigns for educational projects. I have a served on a team that developed and wrote successful grant project proposals or developed fund raising campaigns for educational projects. I have served in an advisory capacity to grant writers and/or development staff. I have managed grant-funded educational projects I have served in an advisory capacity to managers of ongoing grant-funded projects. I have served on a team that implemented grant-funded projects. None of the above. 16 Which of the following describes your experience managing a program budget, program tracking, and program assessment for a school, museum or other organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have overseen a program budget, program tracking and reporting, and program assessment for a school, museum, or other organization. I have managed a program budget for a school, museum or other organization. I have managed program tracking and reporting for a school, museum or other organization. I have managed program assessment for a school, museum or other organization. I have experience participating in budget development and exercising responsibility for keeping projects within budget and on schedule. I have no experience managing a program budget, program tracking and reporting, or program assessment. 17 Which of the following describes your experience in procurement and/or contract services and/or functions?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment, or other items. I have ordered a wide variety of goods and services and tracked delivery of said goods. I completed training, was issued a government purchase card, and used said card for approved purchases. I have conducted market research for product options, availability, and pricing. I have education and/or training in procurement but do not have experience performing these duties. I have extensive knowledge of Federal procurement regulations and procedures including funds management. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.