Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 [4127] Are you a current member in good standing with the Bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [68226] Select the option that best describes your level of legal education at an accredited college or university. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a J.D. degree. I have successfully completed a LL.M. degree. None of the above 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [54503] Select the response that describes your experience in Federal personnel law and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO). Answer to this question is required On a regular basis, I have supported attorneys, senior staff, and others and provided work and expert advice regarding Federal personnel law and EEO. This is/was a major part of a job and my management, co-workers, or other staff regularly consulted me for my expert advice and guidance in this area of law. I have experience in Federal personnel law and EEO and have had assignments in these areas as a regular part of the job. I have education and/or training of Federal personnel law and EEO but have not had the opportunity to perform work in this area. I do not have any education, training and/or experience with Federal personnel law and/or EEO. 5 [54077] Select the areas of law in which you have direct experience. Answer to this question is required Administrative Law Alternative Dispute Resolution Federal Business Transactions Cooperative Agreements Employment Law Ethics Contracts Grants Tort Law Finance Fiscal Law Freedom of Information Act Hatch Act Intellectual Property International Law Privacy Act Procurement Integrity Suspension and Debarment Environmental Law Litigation Tribal law Joint Development Legislative and/or Regulatory Drafting Innovative Project Finance Emergency Relief Safety Appropriations Law Congressional authorization Congressional affairs Federal Advisory Committee Act Civil Rights law Buy America Labor Protections Planning None of the above 6 [35228] Select the statements that describe your experience involving litigation. Answer to this question is required Drafted pleadings, motions, briefs or other documents attendant to litigation. Drafted discovery documents (including interrogatories, requests for admissions, document production requests). Conducted legal research. Conducted or defended depositions. Participated in trial or hearing preparation activities, or appellate case preparation activities (including indexing or summarizing documents, preparing deposition summaries or exhibits, reviewing and analyzing records on appeal and similar tasks). Appeared in court or before an administrative tribunal and conducted direct or cross-examinations. Drafted or assisted in drafting memoranda of law, legal opinions, trial or appellate briefs related to matters in litigation. Drafted settlement agreements or other related transactional documents. Participated in a court or administrative proceeding. None of the above. Grade: 14 1 [4127] Are you a current member in good standing with the Bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [68226] Select the option that best describes your level of legal education at an accredited college or university. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a J.D. degree. I have successfully completed a LL.M. degree. None of the above 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [54503] Select the response that describes your experience in Federal personnel law and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO). Answer to this question is required On a regular basis, I have supported attorneys, senior staff, and others and provided work and expert advice regarding Federal personnel law and EEO. This is/was a major part of a job and my management, co-workers, or other staff regularly consulted me for my expert advice and guidance in this area of law. I have experience in Federal personnel law and EEO and have had assignments in these areas as a regular part of the job. I have education and/or training of Federal personnel law and EEO but have not had the opportunity to perform work in this area. I do not have any education, training and/or experience with Federal personnel law and/or EEO. 5 [54077] Select the areas of law in which you have direct experience. Answer to this question is required Administrative Law Alternative Dispute Resolution Federal Business Transactions Cooperative Agreements Employment Law Ethics Contracts Grants Tort Law Finance Fiscal Law Freedom of Information Act Hatch Act Intellectual Property International Law Privacy Act Procurement Integrity Suspension and Debarment Environmental Law Litigation Tribal law Joint Development Legislative and/or Regulatory Drafting Innovative Project Finance Emergency Relief Safety Appropriations Law Congressional authorization Congressional affairs Federal Advisory Committee Act Civil Rights law Buy America Labor Protections Planning None of the above 6 [35228] Select the statements that describe your experience involving litigation. Answer to this question is required Drafted pleadings, motions, briefs or other documents attendant to litigation. Drafted discovery documents (including interrogatories, requests for admissions, document production requests). Conducted legal research. Conducted or defended depositions. Participated in trial or hearing preparation activities, or appellate case preparation activities (including indexing or summarizing documents, preparing deposition summaries or exhibits, reviewing and analyzing records on appeal and similar tasks). Appeared in court or before an administrative tribunal and conducted direct or cross-examinations. Drafted or assisted in drafting memoranda of law, legal opinions, trial or appellate briefs related to matters in litigation. Drafted settlement agreements or other related transactional documents. Participated in a court or administrative proceeding. None of the above. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 5 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 12 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 12.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 12.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 12.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).