Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience in developing, applying, and implementing collections management policies, standards, and best practices for a diverse range of collections? (Check those that apply) Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as a subject matter expert in current professional collections management principles, policies, standards, and best practices for a wide range of collections. I have broad knowledge, based on experience and/or college-level coursework, in the management of a variety of diverse collection materials, which may include works of art, historical artifacts, natural and physical science specimens, living animals and plants, archives, and/or libraries. I have developed, implemented, and/or contributed to the development and implementation of collections management policies, standards, and best practices as part of my job. I have expert knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections acquisition, documentation, preservation, storage, inventory, and loans) through on-the-job training and/or college-level coursework. None of the above. 3 What cultural heritage collections have you had training and handling experience with?&nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had training working directly with art collections. I have had direct handling experience working with art collections. I have had training working directly with science collections. I have had direct handling experience working with science collections. I have had training working directly with history collections. I have had direct handling experience working with history collections. I have had training working directly with archive collections. I have had direct handling experience working with archive collections. I have had training working directly with library collections. I have had direct handling experience working with library collections. I have had training working directly with living collections (gardens/zoological). I have had direct handling experience working with living collections (gardens/zoological) I have not had any training working directly with cultural heritage collections. I have not had any direct handling experience with cultural heritage collections. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience in developing and implementing collections emergency management plans for mitigation, preparedness, and response and recovery at a cultural heritage institution? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team or committee in developing and implementing collections emergency management plans for mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery at a cultural heritage institution I have experience independently developing and implementing collections emergency management plans for mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery at a cultural heritage institution. I have experience as a team member in developing and implementing collections emergency management plans for mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery at a cultural heritage institution None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in researching current trends for collections emergency management policies, procedures, and best practices for cultural heritage institutions? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in researching current trends for collections emergency management policies, procedures, and best practices for cultural heritage institutions. I have some experience in researching current trends for collections emergency management policies, procedures, and best practices for cultural heritage institutions. I have minimal experience in researching current trends for collections emergency management policies, procedures, and best practices for cultural heritage institutions. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your written communication skills in presenting collections-related programmatic goals, reports, evaluations, policy guidance, and information in a diverse organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience in preparing collections-related written reports and documentation for a diverse audience, including higher management. I have experience writing complex collections-related reports, office-wide memoranda, policy guidance, operating procedures, and recommendations to staff and my supervisor. I have routinely written collections-related reports and memoranda on behalf of a committee or group of individuals which may involve explanation of policies, procedures, and/or recommendations. I have experience writing drafts of collections-related reports, memoranda, policy, procedures, and/or recommendations for my supervisor. I have made recommendations to my supervisor or higher management regarding changes in draft reports written by others. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in providing administrative and programmatic support? Answer to this question is required I have prepared meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation under close supervision. I have assisted others in preparing meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. I have participated on a team that prepared meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. I have independently prepared and disseminated meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in communicating orally (Check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals in-person. I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals via phone or video calls with a small number of participants. I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals via phone or video calls with a large number of participants. I have communicated orally in a professional environment. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience in developing and managing information sharing systemes? Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience developing and managing various programmatic or project-based information sharing systems, including SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites, to allow information exchange among cross-disciplinary groups. I have direct experience managing various information sharing systems, such as SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites, to allow for simplified information exchange. I have used and contributed to various information sharing systems. I have training in various information sharing systems, such as SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.