Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Classification &amp; Computation Technician communicate with federal, state, and local law enforcement officials as well as the U.S. Attorney&rsquo;s Office, inmates and their attorneys, public and other significant parties to obtain and exchange factual information and/or documents pertaining to the sentencing of inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented general information to staff regarding policies; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff members; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers during a staff meeting; and/or I have assisted with providing training to employees during training classes such as Annual Training; and/or I have given instruction to employees about how to complete forms such as training sign-in sheets, enrollment forms, and on-the-job training checklists. I have discussed an inmate request with a Correctional Treatment Specialist; and/or I have explained release procedures with an inmate; and/or I have conducted counseling with an inmate regarding an Interstate Agreement on Detainers. I have contacted the Physician Assistant to request an inmate’s medical file; and/or I have provided directions to a Correctional Officer for completing an ISM-related form; and/or I have explained to an inmate the required paperwork for release procedures. None of the above. 3 Inmate Classification &amp; Computation Technician respond to inquiries from law enforcement agencies and prepare a variety of legal forms, lists, notifications, memoranda and letters pertaining to the sentencing of inmates and other department matters.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured proper labels were applied prior to archiving records; and/or I have responded to routine documents and correspondence; and/or I have replied and answered e-mail messages. I have written an incident report on an inmate under ISM supervision; and/or I have provided notification to other institution departments regarding a pending inmate movement; and/or I have written, constructed, and maintained permanent card files. I have prepared a pre-formatted notice to the Marshal Service regarding the pending release of an inmate; and/or I have prepared a certificate of service for legal mail; and/or I have prepared standardized training agenda; and/or I have assisted others in completing standardized forms for programs/services/applications. None of the above. 4 Inmate Classification and Computation Technician utilize a variety of legal resources contained in agency manuals, program statements, court decisions, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Federal Sentencing Laws and other related documents. They&nbsp;interpret information, extract pertinent data, and apply it to specific inmate issues.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided notification to other institution departments regarding inmate movement; and/or I have per policy, verified billing assignments for contract inmates; and/or I have used agency policy to respond to inquiries. I have typed briefs, including tables of contents; and/or I have typed statistical information from draft forms; and/or I have assisted a customer/client in completing claim forms. I have applied routine guidelines; and/or I have consolidated and appropriately labeled inmate files prior to transfer and deadlines; and/or I have determined whether legal documents corresponded with statutes. None of the above. 5 Inmate Classification &amp; Computation Technician have full accountability for the organization, security, maintenance, and control of all records and files used in their work.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have labeled inmate records; and/or I have alphabetized files; and/or I have continued to maintain records and files as prescribed by policy. I have filed an electronically approved Medicare form; and/or I have filed and maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have retrieved files upon request; and/or I have maintained an inventory of office equipment and supplies; and/or I have established correspondence, intra-office, purchasing and other subject matter files; and/or I have maintained records of class and program attendance. I have maintained all log books within the department; and/or I have mailed files; and/or I have maintained PSI log; and/or I have maintained a halfway house log. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Inmate Classification and Computation Technicians communicate with federal, state, and local law enforcement officials as well as the U.S. Attorney's Office, inmates and their attorneys, general public and other significant parties to obtain and exchange factual information and/or documents pertaining to the sentencing of inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided basic instruction to an inmate work detail; and/or I have provided instruction to special needs individuals on a work detail/situation; and/or I have assisted in the control center; and/or I have disclosed information such as directions, visiting hours, mail procedures, etc., in response to verbal inquiries. I have presented general information to staff regarding policies; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff members; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers during a staff meeting. I have provided guidance to inmates concerning jail credit; and/or I have worked in the Locator Center taking calls to determine the release of information on inmates; and/or I have attended and participated in budget meeting. I have answered routine inquiries on office procedures; and/or I have conducted training sessions on new technology for co-workers; and/or I have answered administrative/technical questions from upper level management; and/or I have exchanged information with other federal and non-federal agencies; and/or I have spoken with vendors and persons outside the organization. I have assisted with providing training to employees during training classes such as Annual Refresher training; and/or I have given instruction to employees about how to complete forms such as training sign-in sheets, enrollment forms, and on-the-job training checklists. I have communicated and taken active role in affirmative action program; and/or I have answered questions and provided/presented specific information to training participants; and/or I have contacted court to verify and/or clarify court orders. None of the above. 3 Inmate Classification and Computation Technicians respond to inquires from law enforcement agencies and prepare a variety of legal forms, lists, notifications, memoranda and letters pertaining to sentencing of inmates and other department matters. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming training opportunity; and/or I have provided brief statement of status of case to authorized requestor. I have prepared a pre-formatted notice to the Marshal Service regarding pending release of inmate; and/or I have prepared certificate of service for legal mail; and/or I have prepared standardized training agenda; and/or I have assisted others in completing standardized forms for programs/services/applications. I have completed standard notification forms upon death of inmates; and/or I have provided status reports of workload to supervisor; and/or I have composed transmittal letters to be sent to private attorneys, employees, employers and /or court assistants; and/or I have drafted requests to federal, state or local law enforcement agencies for information on the status of sentences or convictions. None of the above. 4 Inmate Classification and Computation Technicians utilize a variety of legal resources contained in agency manuals, program statements, court decisions, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Federal Sentencing Laws and other related documents. They interpret information, extract pertinent data, and apply it to the specific inmate issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed/examined applications submitted by individuals, partnerships corporations or others requesting licenses, permits, right, privileges, etc.; and/or I have provided a monthly release list according to agency requirements; and/or I have used Mail Manual to research and respond to an inmate or staff inquiry regarding mail. In order to detect irregularities/discrepancies, I have compared information contained in an application with information found in amendments for registration or other legal instruments; and/or I have applied specific guidelines on instruments regarding rights of beneficiaries; and/or I have made computations to determine debts as outlined in legal instruction. I have typed briefs, including tables of contents; and/or I have typed statistical information from draft forms; and/or I have assisted customer/client in completing claim form. None of the above. 5 Inmate Classification and Computation Technicians have full accountability for the organization, security, maintenance, and control of all records and files used in their work. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted Medicare recipient with obtaining information from physician and file for incomplete claim; and/or I have researched and compiled listing from files needed for examination of individual's social security; and/or I have researched and provided inmate with requested information from J&C file; and/or I have kept accurate count of all inmate files daily. I have maintained case files; and/or I have purged J&C files of unnecessary paperwork; and/or I have maintained daily log book on chronological disciplinary record requirements; and/or I have maintained unsatisfactory GED ratings; and/or I have verified information on documents prior to filing. I have filed electronically approved Medicare form; and/or I have filed and maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have retrieved files upon request; and/or I have maintained inventory of office equipment and supplies; and/or I have established correspondence, intra-office, purchasing and other subject matter files; and/or I have maintained records of class and program attendance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).