Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lower grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Orthotist-Prosthetist assesses the patient to determine a functional intervention due to the impairment of human movement or musculoskeletal abnormalities that impedes their ability to participate in their social environment or other activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created a comprehensive prosthetic treatment plan to meet the needs and goals of a patient; and/or I have assessed patients with cognitive, circulation, gait, posture and balance concerns to design and fabricate appropriate prosthesis based on physician prescriptions; and/or I have conducted follow-up assessments to determine the effectiveness of orthotic/prosthetic devices; and/or I have performed assessments in an out-patient/inpatient environment. I have independently provided orthotic/prosthetic treatments amongst multi-disciplinary healthcare team, in both in-patient and out-patient settings; and/or I have adjusted, repaired or replaced orthotic or prosthetic devices based upon clinical response; and/or I have requested preliminary and post treatment diagnostic tests; and/or I have consulted with a physician/referring provider when routine diagnostic tests are indicated. I have completed an initial patient history and assessment prior to presenting the information to a supervising orthotic or prosthetic device specialist; and/or I have developed a differential diagnosis; and/or I have provided patients with preparatory care for orthotic/prosthetic management (i.e., diagnostic splint, residual limb shrinker). None of the above. 3 The Orthotist-Prosthetist utilizes a follow-up treatment plan that ensures successful orthotic and/or prosthetic outcomes, patient health and quality of life. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized problem solving skills to formulate modifications to ensure successful outcomes after discussions with the patient; and/or I have appropriately educated patients orally, based on treatment objectives; and/or I have communicated with healthcare providers in the coordination of short-term and long-term patient care goals. I have interpreted documentation of functional changes, formulation of modifications to ensure successful outcomes after discussions with the patient; and/or I have communicated any adverse assessment findings with prescribing authority and clinical team; and/or I have reassessed treatment objectives orally with the patient and establishes treatment goals. I have discussed functional changes, formulation of modifications to ensure successful outcomes with the patient; and/or I have discussed and reassessed patient’s expectations regarding treatments; and/or I have provided technical and administrative advice and assistance on prosthetic problems to other facilities; and/or I have answered medico-legal requests. None of the above. 4 The Orthotist-Prosthetist implements the orthotic and/or prosthetic treatment plan requiring extensive planning and evaluation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided follow-up assessments to determine proper fitting and function of orthotic and/or prosthetic devices; and/or I have evaluated and then adjusted orthotic and/or prosthetic devices based upon clinical response; and/or I have planned for follow-up assessments to assure the device remained effective for the patient. I have developed baseline expectations and patient treatment goals; and/or I have implemented a patient care plan; and/or I have ordered appropriate consultative services within scope or practice when needed; and/or I have planned for the purchasing of specific orthotics/prosthetic devices; and/or I have planned and scheduled assessments in an out-patient and/or inpatient environment. I have evaluated patients in outpatient and long-term care facilities; and/or I have completed an initial patient history and cursory assessment prior to presenting the information to a supervising orthotic/prosthetic device specialist; and/or I have ordered orthotics/prosthetics devices specific to each case; and/or I have completed a follow up assessment/examination and planned follow-up assessments with the patient and supervising orthotic/ prosthetic device specialist. None of the above. 5 The Orthotist-Prosthetist must be able to utilize computer-based medical software documentation to include Window operating systems. He/she must understand medical confidentiality and be aware of what information is limited/shared. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided informal training to health information department staff; and/or I have reviewed work completed or in progress; and/or I have maintained complete and accurate documentation with assessment findings and treatment plan. I have conducted an in-service or training session with medical and administrative staff outside Health Information Management to ensure compliance with regulatory or professional standards; and/or I have developed health information departmental procedures for compliance with regulatory, professional or the Joint Commission or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care standards; and/or I have provided recommendations for updates to medical policy. I have reviewed, developed and implemented departmental training initiatives related to regulatory, professional or the Joint Commission standards or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care standards; and/or I have developed national procedural guides/manuals which addressed regulations or standards; and/or I have provided training at a national conference; and/or I have provided technical/advisory support and assistance to other bureau facilities; and/or I have implemented new programs in meeting standards of patient care required by the Bureau of Prisons or other agencies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).