Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of full time experience at or equivalent to Grade 11 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least one year of full time experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in warehouse operations involving the receipt, storage, shipping, delivery, and disposal of excess supplies and personal property? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in interpreting instructions and directives and carrying out oral and written orders? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes a smooth flow and even distribution to ensure staff is effectively utilized to meet organizational and customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in planning, organizing, directing, and managing a workforce that provides warehouse customer service to a headquarters, region, or locale? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience managing contracts serving as a COTR (Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts. I have completed formal education or training in serving as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have served as COTR with responsibility for managing contracts as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to supervise, plan, and perform warehouse operations, inventories, space utilization studies, as well as prepare related reports? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in developing and monitoring security and inventory control procedures? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience meeting with key customers to assess customer satisfaction, explaining organizational policies and procedures, and resolving problems that arise? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience identifying warehouse mission requirements and initiating requests for additional resources including personnel, overtime, equipment, supplies, and space to ensure success in meeting goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience documenting warehouse analysis findings for evaluation of receipt, storage, shipping, delivery, and disposal of excess supplies processes to ensure organization personnel are in compliance with current organization processes? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience using a warehouse automated database system for purchase orders and processing taggable equipment to include data entry of receipt information? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience of GSA excess personal property regulations and condition codes to properly evaluate assets for disposal methods using an automated personal property management system? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 14 Which of the following statements describe the extent of your experience in managing operations of a warehouse’s automated databases for personal property management asset? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience ensuring the staff prints the files, collecting documents for items received, and researching the status of incoming or completed shipments when necessary through a warehouse automated system? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products, documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department. 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in maintaining property accountability and control by conducting an annual physical inventory, ensuring regulations are followed to safeguard assets/equipment and maintaining control of the data input into the automated centralized property management system? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 18 Which of the following statements best reflects your experience with the disposition of an agency's accountable property? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have disposed of an agency’s property through the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office. I have disposed of an agency’s property through the General Services Administration. I have disposed of an agency’s IT equipment through donation such as the Computers for Learning program. I am familiar with and have implemented processes for the disposal of Federal Electronics Assets through approved recyclers. I have implemented processes to obtain revenue through the disposal of excess property. I have implemented a property reutilization program. I have disposed of corporate property through sales and/or auction. None of the above. 19 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in applying best practices, industry standards, professional experience, policies, processes and regulations to manage a property management program? Answer to this question is required Identified and participated in the implementation of modifications to existing logistics programs, policies and procedures. Applied knowledge of industry standards and best practices. Implemented a voluntary consensus standard, industry best practice and/or ASTM standard. Developed policies and procedures to affect change in an organization-wide logistics program involving inventory, property and equipment management. Consistently applied industry standards and best practices. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 20 Have you served as a National Utilization Officer or alternate National Utilization Officer in a museum, university or research environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which of the following best describes your experience dispositioning federal and trust property located outside of the United States ? Answer to this question is required I have led staff who performed these tasks, or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience in arranging for the disposal of surplus or excess property in accordance with federal regulations, directives and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have arranged for disposal of surplus or excess property in accordance with directives and procedures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in arranging for disposal of surplus or excess property in accordance with directives and procedures. I have arranged for disposal of surplus or excess property in accordance with directives and procedures under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in arranging for disposal of surplus or excess property in accordance with directives and procedures but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item). 23 Which of the following best describes your experience with the Federal Management Regulation (FMR)? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience applying regulations in the FMR. My application of the FMR is reviewed only occasionally to determine whether goals have been met. I have some experience applying regulations in the FMR. My application of the FMR is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee. I am not familiar with the FMR. 24 Do you currently possess a valid driver's license for the state in which you live? (Please provide a copy of your license with your application.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 25 Do you have the ability to lift 30 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.