Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having the following: 1.)&nbsp; Extensive experience of a broad range of engineering, facility management and construction management projects in occupied buildings of historic significance. 2.) Managing engineering projects from the planning stage through the design and construction phases. 3.) Understanding Architecture and Engineering construction concepts, principles and practices to serve as the Project Manager for assigned projects. 4.) Serving as Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent. 5.) Planning, conducting, and recording site/facilities surveys, inspections, studies and coordinate with other engineering disciplines. 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with safety planning? Answer to this question is required I have followed safety plans developed by others. I have communicated safety information to others informally. I have audited worksites to ensure compliance with internal and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) safety regulations and procedures. I have developed and/or facilitated safety plan None of the above 4 Have you done construction and renovation work on buildings that require historic preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 5 Have you simultaneously managed three or more construction projects that were in different stages of development? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required Professional Engineering (PE) certification Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) Registered Architect (RA) certification Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification Certified Energy Manager (CEM) None of the above 7 In which design stages have you worked on in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents Construction administration None of the above 8 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Developed and managed a project budget None of the above 9 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects or facility design and construction (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. 10 Which of the following best describes your project management experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a team member, contributing to the team's activities and efforts in carrying out a work project. In support of the team's activities and efforts, I have been assigned responsibility for the accomplishment of components of projects. I have assisted in the management of projects by performing key tasks such as developing project plans, scheduling milestones, developing requirements, estimating costs and budgets, and monitoring and drafting progress reports. I have been a project manager with responsibility to formulate, execute and complete projects. I have led and directed project team members, obtained necessary project approvals and authorizations, and reported progress and results attained upon completion. I have been a supervisor and project manager for multiple complex projects. I have been responsible for initiating projects, establishing priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects, making resource decisions for competing projects, including negotiating budgets, controlling costs, securing required human and technology resources, planning and executing the work plan and directing assigned team members in producing quality deliverables, results and outcomes, and closing out the project. None of the above. 11 What tasks have you performed while solving problems? Answer to this question is required I have identified incongruent or incomplete information. I have identified and resolved previously unknown issues (i.e., existing problems that no one discovered before). I have implemented precedent-setting solutions impacting my organization (e.g., new work processes or operating procedures). I identified a problem early, which prevented severe consequences from occurring had the problem been detected later. I reviewed large amounts of information and distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make logical conclusions. None of the above. 12 Please&nbsp;provide an example of how you resolved a difficult and complex technical, project management or organizational problem using innovative and original approaches. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Reports of findings Scope of Work, Task orders, White paper, Agency or company design standards Acquisition plan, Project management plan Procurement documents (e.g., addenda, bulletins, plans, board selection reports) Specifications Quality standards Slide content (e.g. PowerPoint presentations) Cost benefit analysis Technical and Non-technical report version on the same project issue Business correspondence (e.g. letters, emails, etc.) None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.