Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have at least one&nbsp;full year of professional nursing experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience&nbsp;requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Director of Nursing is responsible for developing nursing policies to include the establishments of improvement programs to evaluate the effectiveness of nursing and patient care within the hospital.&nbsp; He/she must be able to express ideas, create reports and policies, writes internal memoranda, as well as letters in a clear and concise manner using proper grammar, spelling, and punctuation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated procedure or guidelines concerning nursing care plans related to the medical/nursing manual; and/or I have revised an existing policy; and/or I have independently investigated and responded to inquiries/BP-9's submitted in regards to the Department of Nursing. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared information for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have recorded entries in ledgers pertaining to nursing department critical incidents/emergencies; and/or I have identified need for additional positions, converting or deleting positions and wrote justification to addition/deletion; and/or I have monitored and responded to nursing care delivery after official program review/audit. None of the above. 7 The Director of Nursing must be able to develop, interpret, translate and implement policies and procedures governing the provisions of nursing care and service in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a work group or committee pertaining to development of a new policy or guideline; and/or I have revised a work schedule to meet the needs of the department; and/or I have assisted in revising departmental guidelines; and/or I have assisted in Health Services program review/audit. I have interpreted/explained specific revisions in departmental correctional and/or nursing policies in institution; and/or I have explained new techniques for nursing staff; and/or I have ensured policies followed in providing adequate nursing care for all patients. I have followed departmental guidelines to complete assigned performance evaluations or taken disciplinary actions; and/or I have followed or adapted special procedures using established policies; and/or I have utilized a policy or guideline to implement a program change. None of the above. 8 The Director of Nursing must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to staff in the institution as well as people with other government agencies and hospitals within the community. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information in a national or regional medical conference; and/or I have served on an agency/system-wide work group/committee by discussing updated medical information; and/or I have provided information during a department head meeting; and/or I have interviewed an applicant during a panel interview. I have communicated with other hospitals, agency Director of Nursing, upper management/Hospital Administrator, executive staff regarding concerns; and/or I have reported unusual medical issues to immediate supervisor, manager and executive staff; and/or I have educated patients on their individual health needs. I have participated in departmental meetings by providing information on departmental issues; and/or I have obtained information from vendors in order to coordinate medical equipment purchases; and/or I have provided staff from other departments (i.e., Correctional Services, Psychology Services, Inmate Systems Department) with information to coordinate a medical escort trip. None of the above. 9 The Director of Nursing is responsible for administering programs and services while meeting the Joint Commission and health service standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated performance of nursing staff; and/or I have provided counseling/instruction to individual employees; and/or I have evaluated staff competencies in relation to policies; and/or I have ensured standards of nursing practice were developed and consistent with professionals standards. I have corrected audit or program review deviations; and/or I have ensured appropriate staffing of nurses on medical units; and/or I have written a handbook for nurse supervisors or medical supervisors integrating various administrative duties, instructions, forms for medical personnel. I have followed established guidelines in preparing administrative programs; and/or I have revised deficient procedures following an audit or program review; and/or I have assisted with scheduling training activities. None of the above. 10 The Director of Nursing is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have directed less experienced training instructors in developing and planning classroom exercises/activities; and/or I have prepared staff performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. I have assigned and reviewed the work of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit/team; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School : Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have at least one&nbsp;full year of professional nursing experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience&nbsp;requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Director of Nursing must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to staff in the institution as well as people with other government agencies and hospitals within the community. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information in a national or regional medical conference; and/or I have served on an agency/system-wide work group/committee by discussing updated medical information; and/or I have provided information during a department head meeting; and/or I have interviewed an applicant during a panel interview. I have discussed correctional concerns regarding medical care for patients; and/or I have directed staff in an emergency situation; and/or I have communicated complex ideas or issues to executive staff/hospital administrators; and/or I have counseled staff members applying appropriate labor management relations guidelines. I have communicated with other hospitals, agency Director of Nursing, upper management/Hospital Administrator, executive staff regarding concerns; and/or I have reported unusual medical issues to immediate supervisor, manager and executive staff; and/or I have educated patients on their individual health needs. None of the above. 7 The Director of Nursing is responsible for developing nursing policies to include the establishment of improvement programs to evaluate the effectiveness of nursing and patient care within the hospital. He/she must be able to express ideas, create reports and policies, and write internal memoranda as well as letters in a clear and concise manner using proper grammar, spelling, and punctuation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recorded entries in ledgers pertaining to nursing department critical incidents/emergencies; and/or I have identified the need for additional positions, converting or deleting positions and written justification to addition/deletion; and/or I have monitored and responded to nursing care delivery after official program review/audit. I have updated procedure or guidelines concerning nursing care plans related to the medical/nursing manual; and/or I have revised an existing policy; and/or I have independently investigated and responded to inquiries/BP-9's submitted in regards to the Department of Nursing. I have developed local policy/procedures that followed Joint Commission standards regarding inmate patient medical care; and/or I have developed position descriptions for nursing department positions; and/or I have written a justification for contract and procurement actions regarding the purchase of office or medical equipment/instruments; and/or I have written specific institution Nursing Department plans for care delivery system. None of the above. 8 The Director of Nursing must be able to develop, change, interpret, translate and implement policies and procedures governing the provisions of nursing care and service in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a work group or committee pertaining to development of a new policy or guideline; and/or I have revised a work schedule to meet the needs of the department; and/or I have assisted in revising departmental guidelines; and/or I have assisted in Health Services program review/audit. I have developed policy regarding the orientation of new nursing staff in a clinical setting; and/or I have developed/revised a Nursing Department Strategic Plan/long term plan concerning Joint Commission expectations, staffing and financial resources; and/or I have implemented a medical record documentation system; and/or I have developed a treatment plan for a high custody inmate/patient requiring special procedures in support of correctional services policy. I have followed departmental guidelines to complete assigned performance evaluations or take disciplinary actions; and/or I have followed or adapted special procedures using established policies; and/or I have utilized a policy or guideline to implement a program change. None of the above. 9 The Director of Nursing is responsible for administering programs and services while meeting the Joint Commission and health service standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have corrected audit or program review deviations; and/or I have ensured appropriate staffing of nurses on medical units; and/or I have written a handbook for nurse supervisors or medical supervisors integrating various administrative duties, instructions, forms for medical personnel. I have participated in or conducted an audit or program review; and/or I have designed complex guidelines for establishing new or existing departments such as dialysis, oncology, surgery; and/or I have maintained a nursing administration policy manual; and/or I have conducted Improving Organizational Performance (IOP) projects to improve quality of care; and/or I have audited and tracked risk management activities like falls, medication errors etc. to identify training gaps; and/or I have initiated a program to improve efficient operation of a nursing department. I have followed established guidelines in preparing administrative programs; and/or I have revised deficient procedures following an audit or program review; and/or I have assisted with scheduling training activities. None of the above. 10 The Director of Nursing is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed an official staff mentoring program; and/or I have developed a class where employees were cross-trained in various areas other than their specific position; and/or I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions to improve subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit/team projects and tracked a subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have incorporated training in various division/unit/team/office meetings. I have assigned and reviewed the work of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit/team; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have directed less experienced training instructors in developing and planning classroom exercises/activities; and/or I have prepared staff performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).