Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience treating and documenting works of art for the purpose of preserving them while leading and providing mentorship to junior colleagues,&nbsp;fellows and interns for a large art museum.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience treating and documenting works of art for the purpose of preserving them? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have a Master&rsquo;s degree in art conservation. Answer to this question is required True False 5 Have you, working independently or as part of a larger team, had to assess the condition of a medium to large collection of paintings, and recommend treatment priorities as part of a long range conservation program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you published at least three scholarly pieces, specifically regarding some aspect of painting conservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you been a member of the American Institute of Conservation, within the past five (5) years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have been trained in the techniques of measuring the following environmental conditions, appropriate for storage of specific pieces of art. Answer to this question is required Temperature Relative humidity Illumination levels Other material influences None of these factors 9 Have you written treatment proposals regarding conservation treatment of paintings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Choose those areas of conservation with which you have at least five (5) years' experience. Answer to this question is required Conservation science Photograph conservation Paper conservation New media art preservation Painting conservation Preventive conservation Object conservation Contemporary art conservation Other areas of conservation not mentioned here None of the above. 11 Indicate the activities you have carried out as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Participated in museum loan assessments Acted as a courier for international and domestic loans Monitored expenses applied to an art museum exhibition budget that was already established Trained and mentored Fellows and Interns Advised others on display and/or handling requirements for one or more art museum exhibitions or individual works of art Assessed and specified packing requirements for large and complex artworks Used TMS or another collections management database Effectively communicated complicated information to internal and external audiences Wrote grant proposals for foundations, donors, and corporate sponsors Led a project or group with little or no supervision or guidance to ensure achievement of goals Encouraged or sought the involvement or participation of others in a group or activity Worked closely with scientists Worked closely with curators and art historians Worked across conservation media Other activities not specified here None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.