Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts and techniques to manage library functions and carry out library programs; using this knowledge to manage public service programs. Experience includes the following: 1) setting priorities and policies for circulation and loan; 2) providing expertise and advice for collection development and management; 3) managing a division or department&rsquo;s development of policies, practices, and standards for reference and research services; and 4) managing aspects of an integrated library system including bibliographic and user data. Answer to this question is required As a manager of library programs and services, initiated, planned, and executed public service programs and performed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager or contributor, worked in a public service unit and provided leadership to support ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager or contributor, demonstrated extensive knowledge of principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science applied to one or more specialized functions or programs within a library and information environment. Performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to lead, plan, coordinate and manage programs and projects.** Led, planned, coordinated and managed programs and projects by performing the following tasks: 1) defining the project; 2) ensuring accountability of team members in meeting project deadlines and milestones; 3) designing and planning the project; 4) managing the project team; 5) controlling and delivering project deliverables; 6) developing and/or managing change/problem tracking system; 7) managing project requirements and user expectations; 8) optimizing team member contributions; 9) facilitating discussions working toward solutions; and 10) evaluating the impact of decisions on quality, productivity, schedules, cost, and performance. Answer to this question is required Led SEVERAL projects related to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in leading these projects executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in SEVERAL projects related to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in leading or playing a key role in these projects executed at LEAST SIX (6) of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in one or more projects relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities and in doing so executed at LEAST FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to supervise, develop, and lead a cultural heritage workforce.** Supervised and managed a workforce, tasks included: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production and accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved and disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates for positions, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality, 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging diversity and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to exchange information and interact collaboratively with persons inside and outside of an organization, including decision-makers and their staff, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or customers. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as the principal liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as a liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside and/or outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through participation in library groups, conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and/or workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside an organization. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide reference and research services. Provided reference and research services by: (1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; (2) evaluating patrons&rsquo; requirements and developing search strategies; (3) identifying and evaluating authoritative data, statistics, and information; (4) evaluating international print and electronic resources for content coverage and trends; (5) monitoring current events; and (6) identifying emerging trends in digital scholarship. Answer to this question is required As a librarian, has extensive experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed ALL of the above. As a librarian has experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Has experience providing reference and research services, and in doing so, executed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above tasks in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate and understandable work products to management, staff, and others. These documents include: 1) policies and procedures, 2) program proposals, 3) analytical reports, 4) memoranda, 5) project plans, 6) statements of work, 7) planning documents, and 8) presentations, to support the objectives of the organization. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above documents to support the objectives of the organization. Independently wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents, including items (1), (5) and (6), to support the objectives of the organization. Independently wrote FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above documents, including items (1), (5) and (6), to support the objectives of the organization. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).