Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Performed facility operations management and/or supply management duties utilizing computer technology, including software for: 1) spreadsheets; 2) database management; 3) word-processing; 4) email; 5) presentations; and 6) web/internet access. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated competence utilizing ALL of the following software: spreadsheets, database management, word processing, email, presentations and web/internet access. Demonstrated competence utilizing 1), 2), and 3) of the software mentioned above. Demonstrated competence utilizing AT LEAST 1) and 2) of the software mentioned above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of laws, regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to facility maintenance, utilization, and operations.** Coordinated and directed facility operations and maintenance programs, projects, and activities. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, scheduled, coordinated, and/or monitored conventional facility maintenance and/or system replacement. Executed by contract or in-house workforce. Performed a single function in support of a facility maintenance program. For example, coordinated contractor repairs to equipment, or planned for janitorial services, e.g., scheduling janitorial hours of service. Performed limited support duties for a facility maintenance program while under close supervision. For example, performed developmental assignments as a basic trainee, e.g., compiling reports and giving factual information. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of policies, processes, and regulations pertaining to inventory, property and equipment management.** Managed, coordinated, and/or controlled property and/or equipment as part of an inventory management program. Answer to this question is required Performed recurring assignments, operations, and procedures for a local inventory management program, such as monitored an assigned block of activities, developed requirements for assigned items, and/or updated property/equipment inventories on a periodic basis. In a developmental capacity, or as a technician, performed standard inventory management-related tasks, such as computation of quantitative levels for recurring items, or processing documents for the return and re-utilization of equipment. Performed inventory management support work, such as acquisition support, including preparation of requests for procurement of materials. Maintained supply levels by categorizing and issuing basic supplies and/or equipment, participating in taking inventory of property or equipment, and/or entering data into an inventory control system. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform contractor oversight for facilities construction, repair, and maintenance.** Provided guidance to contractor counterparts and ensured that contractor performance met project specifications. Answer to this question is required Independently monitored contractor activities in the day-to-day performance of the contract, such as performing facilities operations analysis, troubleshooting, problem resolution, corrective analysis, invoicing, and calculating contract burn rates. Worked with contractors or their representatives on routine aspects of facilities maintenance, repair, or construction projects according to close supervisory direction. For example, collaborated with contractors to solve basic operational problems. Performed rudimentary contracting support duties in a developmental capacity, such as observing and recording interactions between higher-grade specialists and contractors in the day-to-day performance of the contract. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to research, gather and analyze data and information. Researched, gathered and analyzed data from various sources and summarized it into a single report. Answer to this question is required Independently applied conventional facilities operations analysis techniques through conducting studies, gathering facts/information, presenting facts, drawing conclusions, and making recommendations on well-precedented issues. For example, conducted surveys and inspected facilities to evaluate use patterns and identify maintenance or restoration requirements and presented it to management Independently identified the need for valid and reliable data, researched, gathered and analyzed the data, then generated a cohesive report and presented it to higher-graded specialists Independently gathered and analyzed data, then generated a cohesive report and presented it to peers. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Conveyed information in written forms such as contracts, reports, letters, or documents. Answer to this question is required Wrote technical summaries based on independent analysis related to facility maintenance, utilization and/or operations. Wrote a variety of non-technical documents that summarized data or information, such as letters or responses to inter-organization inquiries, and/or instructions for routine procedures. Drafted replies to general inquiries and requests for information concerning routine matters. Composed memoranda and other brief documents to convey information. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).