Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must possess one of the following certificates: Institute of Hazardous Material Management (IHMM) - (Certified by Hazardous Materials Manager (CHMM) Institute of Hazardous Materials Managers (IHMM) - (Certified by Hazardous Materials Practitioner (CHMP), National Registry of Environmental Professionals (NREP) - (Certified by Environmental Auditor or Certified by Environmental Systems Manager) Board of Environmental, Health &amp; Safety Auditor Certifications (BEAC) - (Certified by Professional Environmental Auditor (CPEA). 2 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess one of the required certifications for this position AND I have provided a current copy of the certification(s), and my resume clearly addresses this information. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Environmental Protection Specialist must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Environmental programs with institution personnel, as well as with Regional and Central Office personnel on a regular basis. Contacts made by him/her also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, Local and State Environmental Protection Agencies, the local Environmental and Safety Protection Administrator, and others. He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmate&rsquo;s attitude and behavior patterns.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted training sessions for internal staff during scheduled meetings such as annual training or equivalent; and/or I have provided A&O to newly incarcerated inmates or new departmental staff; and/or I have presented recommendations and implementation plan to upper management as a result of environmental findings. I have presented environmental training programs to agency safety professionals as well as institutional staff; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department and police department; and/or I have served as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have trained others in the proper mixture and application of various chemicals (such as cleaning supplies); and/or I have presented environmental Protection information at an informal gathering; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to a work detail regarding the recycling program, or other program involving environmental concerns. None of the above. 4 Environmental Protection Specialist must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for independently preparing comprehensive reports, memorandums and documenting inspections and their respective corrective actions. He/she is also responsible for composing internal policies and procedures, and preparing correspondence related to environmental needs and programs, such as responses to internal and external organizations, and responding to various requests for information.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and submitted monthly environmental reports to appropriate authority; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for upper management’s signature; and/or I have documented findings from a Program Review or comparable external audit. I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have responded to an environmental related Cop-Out or issue; and/or I have prepared justification for the purchase of environmentally preferred safety related purchases. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyers for departmental staff advertising environmental training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. None of the above. 5 Environmental Protection Specialist is required to research, analyze and interpret information in order to develop, guide and provide advice on environmental issues/concerns impacting Bureau of Prison current or proposed operations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted research on the Internet to maintain currency in established environmental laws, regulations and guidelines; and/or I have gathered information from federal, state and local environmental offices as directed by supervisor; and/or I have assisted in preparing environmental project files. I have assisted in the analysis and development of environmental program objectives or procedures; and/or I have provided implementation recommendations in response to changes in policy or procedure; and/or I have researched and analyzed various sources of information to respond to general environmental related inquiry received. I have recommended corrective action to address an environmental deviation from policy for management consideration; and/or I have assisted in developing corresponding environmental plans or programs; and/or I have researched and analyzed local and/or private environmental regulations and recommended revisions to current procedures. None of the above. 6 Environmental Protection Specialist must possess comprehensive knowledge of the various procedures, concepts and practices in order to assist the agency in developing and implementing programs in Protection with federal, state, and local environmental regulations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assembled material and data to be used/included with environmental briefing papers; and/or I have gathered updates of environmental regulations and drafted potential effects to agency programs; and/or I have participated on team site environmental inspections. I have provided in/out environmental audit briefings to agency personnel when environmental related deficiencies occur; and/or I have recommended updates for environmental handbooks and manuals; and/or I have assisted with site inspections for Protection with environmental regulations. I have reviewed material and data (i.e., environmental plans and permits, sampling and monitoring results) to make recommendations of applicability to briefing papers; and/or I have reviewed site inspection reports prepared by others to become familiar with process; and/or I have taken notes during team site inspections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).