Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The General Manager must possess comprehensive knowledge of and understanding of the mission and goals of UNICOR. He/she must be able to manage the entire industrial operation of a specific product line(s) workload while maintaining the efficiency level and meeting the goals set by the Board of Directors and corporate management.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have adjusted manpower requirements and workload of staff or inmates which exceeded the efficiency level for different product lines in a factory or comparable setting; and/or I have analyzed the production flow and made adjustments that increased productivity and reduced manufacturing costs for multiple product lines; and/or I have reviewed financial performance reports (i.e., cost, sales, overhead and productivity) and made adjustments which resulted in exceeding the factory goals established by management or the corporation; and/or I have made industrial operation projections for the fiscal period which were adopted by management for several production lines. I have reviewed business plan and met established objectives for fiscal period for several production lines; and/or I have handled and adjusted several product lines or departments to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements for the factory; and/or I have conducted analysis to resolve production issue for two or more production lines. I have inspected multiple product lines to determine safety violations and needed response; and/or I have monitored workload to determine if production goals within a department were being met; and/or I have determined sufficient manpower resources existed for a department. None of the above. 5 The General Manager is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned industrial programs, the coordination of production and other related program activities and decision making which impacts the overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan. I have provided leadership training to staff at a national level; and/or I have developed incentive plans to recognize exceptional performance; and/or I have developed meaningful performance metrics to ensure accountability; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization; and/or I have effectively managed challenging personnel situations involving disciplinary action or performance improvement plans; and/or I have provided assignments which required community exposure (i.e., public speaking opportunities and speech preparation); and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training need in subordinate workforce; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. None of the above. 6 The General Manager is responsible for reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans associated with Federal Prison Industries operations. The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence. He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources. The General Manager is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have researched current and historical data to develop alternatives or recommendations to improve current programs. I have participated as a member of a taskforce charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved the program; and/or I have chaired a taskforce that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices. None of the above. 7 The General Manager is responsible for the interpretation and application of a variety of financial, cost and manufacturing theories, concepts, and practices to their specific product line(s) to ensure factories are operating within their operating plan. He/she must possess comprehensive skills in analyzing and providing recommendations to complex financial and manufacturing date in order to ensure the integrity and profitability of products manufactured are maintained.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed/analyzed multiple location sales, earnings, and inventory levels to project future earning potentials; and/or I have analyzed customer orders to modify future projections of earnings for multiple factories producing same or similar products; and/or I have analyzed and assessed financial data of multiple factory locations and identified/developed cost savings initiatives (i.e., developed and implemented an inventory reduction plan, reorganized manpower levels for optimum performance and cost containment); and/or I have implemented an incentive system/plan to compensate inmate workforce based on amount of finished products produced, which resulted in significant savings to the agency/organization. I have prepared written Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) for review/approval by General Manager or Program manager; and/or I have developed budget proposal and submitted for review and approval by Central Office/Headquarters; and/or I have participated in budget planning meetings. I have ensured current factory operations maintained compliance to current operating plan; and/or I have researched current financial/manufacturing trends and prepared a cost reduction proposal for further consideration (including manufacturing and staffing areas); and/or I have reviewed operating expenses (i.e., utilities and staffing costs) and prepared a written analysis for submission to Corporate Management/Senior Management officials; and/or I have determined manufacturing and financial requirements needed to activate a new factory. None of the above. 8 The General Manager must possess the ability to generate and administer new contracts and enter agency agreements with a variety of sources in order to establish and maintain the need for products manufactured by Federal Prison Industries.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised contracting staff and ensured the efficient and timely receipt of raw materials; and/or I have worked with contracting officer to modify vendor contract to meet customer specifications; and/or I have participated on a team to develop interagency agreements. I have maintained existing partnerships with public and private corporations; and/or I have provided guidance to procurement staff on more efficient methods of procuring items from vendors; and/or I have identified and recommended potential ways to work with private and public corporations which could result in cost savings to Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have led efforts to obtain new interagency agreements. I have developed/initiated contracts and interagency agreements by establishing partnerships with private corporations which resulted in new business for Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have negotiated with other companies/organizations which resulted in a large contract being awarded to Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have developed and established improved methods to work with private/public agencies that saved the corporation money (i.e., less inventories, better use of government resources and more production efficiency). None of the above. 9 The General Manager meets and deals with individuals of differing backgrounds and provides guidance and direction to others, of all levels, on specific program areas. He/she must possess the skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented division/region/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have represented an agency at a hearing regarding a proposal to implement new product lines; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel on controversial/sensitive issue; and/or I have met with high level private sector decision makers on potential business opportunities; and/or I have served in a leadership role on a community involvement committee; and/or I have served on labor negotiation team; and/or I have briefed corporate management on factory operations and performance issues. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (i.e., management level/line staff); and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations; and/or I have resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level. I have communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated routine information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel on recurring issues; and/or I have participated in community-based meetings to promote agency/organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).