Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to develop, organize and manage a major institution-wide volunteer program for a large cultural institution.** Organized and managed a major institution-wide volunteer program and performed the following tasks: 1) planned program and resource requirements, 2) introduced innovative and creative recruiting, training and performance management of team of staff and/or volunteers, 3) deployed systems for scheduling and tracking volunteer activities, 4) evaluated program outcomes, and developed solutions to issues, 5) maintained communication with program team to ensure awareness of goals, processes and procedures, and 6) worked in a changing environment and produced deliverables as scheduled. Answer to this question is required Under minimal supervision, created an institution-wide volunteer program of several hundred volunteers, including organizing, managing and performing all of the above tasks for a large cultural institution. Created a program of a few hundred volunteers and performed all of the above tasks. Managed a program of a few hundred volunteers and performed some of the above tasks related to recruiting, training, and resource assignments. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to adapt to changing circumstances while working in a variety of environments.** The ability to work productively, effectively and accurately in a fast-paced and/or demanding work environment.&nbsp; This includes processing multiple types of information and/or performing multiple tasks efficiently.&nbsp; This includes the ability to adjust priorities in reaction to multiple demands and unanticipated events.&nbsp; Ability to finesse any situation, while remaining composed often in high-pressure public environments. This includes the ability to make decisions and take action in reaction to new information, and maintain effective interactions with others under stressful working conditions. Answer to this question is required Has experience managing a relatively complex situation involving multiple priorities and tasks within the context of unfamiliar or changing circumstances or issues. Considered new activities/responsibilities as he/she embraced change and quickly learned new ways of doing things. Modified approach /style quickly in response to new objectives and changing conditions. Involved other stakeholders and skilled incumbents to develop long-term solutions and employed additional resources to meet changing project requirements. Has experience handling a moderately complex situation involving multiple priorities and tasks within the context of unfamiliar circumstances or issues. Viewed new activities/responsibilities as challenging. Modified work performance as needed to accommodate change. Recruited the assistance of others or employed additional resources to meet changing project requirements. Has experience assisting with a complex situation with multiple priorities and tasks within the context of various circumstances or issues. Modified work performance as needed to accommodate change. Asked for assistance from others or requested additional resources to meet changing project requirements. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to work collaboratively and interact with various groups, especially volunteers.** Worked well and cooperated with others (colleagues, supervisors, managers, visitors, volunteers and staff) from varied educational and professional backgrounds, all with a view toward fostering social cohesion among the Library&rsquo;s audiences and supporters. Experience developing creative volunteer opportunities that attract and engage community members. This includes showing or displaying empathy, courtesy, and tact, as well as relating well to people of all backgrounds and levels of experience. Answer to this question is required With minimal supervision, created a collaborative program to develop creative institution-wide volunteer opportunities to meet institutional goals and priorities. Routinely collaborated with stakeholders, including supervisors, managers, and employees within and outside as representative of a large cultural institution. Engaged community members by showing or displaying empathy, courtesy, and tact, as well as relating well to people of all backgrounds and levels of experience. Supported creation of a collaborative program to develop volunteer opportunities to meet institutional goals and priorities. Collaborated with supervisors, managers, and other employees internal to an organization. Engaged community members by showing or displaying empathy, courtesy, and tact, as well as relating well to people of all backgrounds and levels of experience. Collaborated with supervisors, managers, and other employees primarily internal to an agency/business. Collaborations influenced managers and others to accept and implement findings and recommendations on organizational improvement or program effectiveness, and efficiency of administrative support and staff activities. Worked with community members. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of industry standards for developing major institution-wide volunteer programming, including related resource deployment, policies and procedures, for a large cultural institution. Used knowledge of industry standards to develop policies and procedures for an institution-wide program for a major cultural institution to meet strategic goals. Answer to this question is required Under minimal supervision, developed policies and procedures for an institution-wide program at a major cultural institution meeting defined strategic goals related to engaging diverse audiences. This includes determining program requirements, resource needs, logistical arrangements, and making assignments to others to execute the plan. Under minimal supervision, developed policies and procedures for an institution-wide program at a cultural institution related to engaging with diverse audiences. Assisted higher-level staff with determining program requirements, resource needs, logistical arrangements and contacting vendors or other suppliers. Implemented established policies and procedures for a program at a cultural institution. Assisted a higher level or senior person or participated as a member of a team in developing institution-wide program of significant importance within an organization. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).