Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to apply knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging, acquisitions, and inventory management. ** Applied knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging, acquisitions, and inventory management. This includes the following: 1) using a variety of descriptive and subject cataloging standards (RDA, LC-PCC policy statements, Descriptive Cataloging Manual, Subject Headings Manual, etc.), 2) creating bibliographic records for monographs or serials, 3) creating name authority records, 4) creating holding and item records, and 5) creating orders for monographs or serials. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging, acquisitions, and inventory management, including ALL of the following areas: 1) using a variety of descriptive and subject cataloging standards (RDA, LC-PCC policy statements, Descriptive Cataloging Manual, Subject Headings Manual, etc.), 2) creating bibliographic records for monographs or serials, 3) creating name authority records, 4) creating holding and item records, and 5) creating orders for monographs or serials. Applied in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging, acquisitions, or inventory management, including FOUR (4) of the above. Applied in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging, acquisitions, or inventory management, including THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to use technology to design and carry out instruction functions. ** Utilized various technologies to design and carry out instruction functions, including: 1) Microsoft Office Suite, 2) screen capture software (e.g., Adobe Captivate and/or Techsmith Camtasia); 3) web content creation software (e.g., HTML; Dreamweaver; Wordpress); 4) Learning Management System (LMS) software (e.g., Sumtotal, Cornerstone, iCohere); 5) graphics and visualization software (e.g., Adobe Photoshop, InDesign). Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, have experience using ALL of the above technology groupings to design and carry out instruction functions. As a primary job responsibility, have experience using FOUR (4) of the above technology groupings to design and carry out instruction functions. As a primary job responsibility, have experience using THREE (3) of the above technology groupings to design and carry out instruction functions. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan, develop, and execute library training programs and projects. ** Analyzed, designed, developed, implemented, and evaluated strategies necessary to execute library training programs and projects. Provided appropriate strategies to solve or avoid issues and problems that would negatively impact training. Answer to this question is required Led a team or independently planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented multiple library and information training programs or projects. Identified stakeholders, discussed issues, evaluated alternatives, and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement; created plans to evaluate program or project outcomes; ensured learning objectives were met; summarized results and future recommendations for management. As a member of a team, planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented multiple library and information training programs or projects. Identified stakeholders, discussed issues, evaluated alternatives, and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement; created plans to evaluate program or project outcomes; ensured learning objectives were met; summarized results and future recommendations for management. As a member of a team, planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented a library and information training program or project. Identified stakeholders, discussed issues, evaluated alternatives, and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement; created plans to evaluate program or project outcomes; ensured learning objectives were met; summarized results and future recommendations for management. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate effectively in writing and present information orally. Ability to communicate instructional content and reports in writing and orally, such as: 1) online and classroom course materials development, 2) online and classroom course materials delivery, 3) training plans and reports, 4) policies and procedures, 5) speeches/presentations, 6) statistical reports, 7) training needs analysis, and 8) orally convey information about an organization. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, wrote ALL OF THE ABOVE documents, delivered classroom instruction and prepared presentations and briefings. Presentations often required spontaneous responses to questions without the ability to obtain additional information or support. As a job responsibility, wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) OF THE ABOVE documents, delivered classroom instruction and prepared presentations and briefings. Presentations often required spontaneous responses to questions without the ability to obtain additional information or support. As a job responsibility, wrote FIVE (5) OF THE ABOVE documents and occasionally delivered prepared presentations. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation and liaison services. Provided consultation or performed liaison services to help solve problems, interact collaboratively on programs or projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside of the organization, including supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees, and provided information on various aspects of library science, training, and instructional design. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside of the organization, including colleagues and/or trainees and provided technical information on library science, training, or instructional design. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside the organization, and provided technical information on library science, training, or instructional design. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to use integrated library systems and other library related applications. Utilized various technologies to carry out library technical services functions, including: 1) Integrated Library Systems (ILS), 2) Class Web Plus, 3) OCLC, 4) RDA Toolkit, and 5) the shared Name Authority File. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, have experience using ALL of the above technology groupings to carry out library functions. As a primary job responsibility, have experience using FOUR (4) of the above to carry out library functions. As a job responsibility, have experience using THREE (3) of the above to carry out library functions. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).