Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the criteria described above that defines you as a student? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently enrolled or formally accepted (with the intent to attend) for enrollment as a half-time or full-time student into an accredited high school, home school program, technical/vocational institution, college or university in a degree seeking program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I currently hold a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale. Answer to this question is required True False 4 What year will you be graduating from your academic program? Answer to this question is required Fall 2023 Spring 2024 Fall 2024 Spring 2025 Fall 2025 Spring 2026 Fall 2026 Spring 2027 Fall 2027 Spring 2028 Fall 2028 Spring 2029 Fall 2029 Spring 2030 Fall 2030 None of the above 5 Will you be at least 16 years of age by the closing date of this announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you able to work year-round in the specified location as advertised on the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 8 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 10 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used financial or management data to analyze a problem. Answer to this question is required Participated in a task force Presented facts or findings to department officials Participated in an audit Summarized deficiencies Developed recommendations for system changes Used statistical methods to analyze an issue Resolved discrepancies in an accounting system Analyzed the effectiveness of accounting systems Reconciled differences between financial statements Developed solutions to meet customer needs Developed internal control programs / methods Reconciled general ledger balances None of the above 11 Which of the following sources have you used to conduct research? Answer to this question is required Internet Electronic databases Periodicals Books Regulatory / statutory materials Interviews Multi-media Original sources Surveys None of the above 12 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan and organize to meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have assessed and improved the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations in the office to meet deadlines. I have determined the order of processing for a wide range of related office activities in order to meet deadlines. I have coordinated and scheduled a variety of related office activates to avoid conflicts and ensure that predetermined deadlines are met. I have planned daily work activities to meet deadlines. I have no experience in performing this task. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 13 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.