Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 Applicants who possess the following are preferred: Bureau of Prisons Warrant is preferred. Note: Applicants who possess a quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no one can be rated ineligible for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position AND I have uploaded a copy of my Bureau of Prisons Warrant. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position. 3 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Contracting Officer must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Requisition Regulation (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) in issuing contract modifications; and/or I have followed guidelines in issuing pre-solicitation notices to the Government Point of Entry website; and/or I have applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost and/or technical issues; and/or I have applied procurement regulation in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, services, and construction; and/or I have used agency policy to determine liquidated damages. I have researched applicable law to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to the supervisor on service and supply contracts. I have followed organization guidelines to modify or close-out contracts; and/or I have applied a limited number of directives in the Federal Government; and/or I have interpreted agency directives and policies on routine contracts or purchase orders; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, cancellations, terminations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. None of the above. 7 The Contracting Officer must be able to communicate with people of various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to prepare reports, contracts, and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations for Statements-of-Work to technical staff; and/or I have prepared agendas for pre-proposal and pre-construction conferences; and/or I have written correspondence to contractor/project representative on status of contracts; and/or I have written weekly/monthly reports on contract progress; and/or I have written letters or other documentation for contract file; and/or I have written determinations of responsibility; and/or I have issued contract modifications; and/or I have documented past performances. I have prepared cost/price analyses and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. I have prepared interagency agreements; and/or I have prepared reports from the System of Award Management (SAM); and/or I have prepared contract price/cost analyses; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared unauthorized commitment memos and justifications for other than full and open competition. None of the above. 8 The Contracting Officer must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties. He/she typically meets and deals with contractors, senior corporate officials, state and local officials, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, and Executive Staff. He/she is also responsible for training Program Staff in procurement related topics such as ethics and purchase card procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to others; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement; and/or I have provided training sessions to program office staff; and/or I have prepared briefings to agency management or Executive Staff. I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have assisted in preparation of procurement training. I have participated in staff assistance visits or program reviews to advise and improve operations at institutions experiencing procurement problems; and/or I have dealt with high-level business, industry or Government officials in discussing contract issues; and/or I have provided assistance to the technical management team; and/or I have guided lower level staff in day-to-day operations; and/or I have negotiated equitable adjustments; and/or I have conducted procurement training. None of the above. 9 The Contracting Officer must have knowledge and expertise of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types, the proper clauses and provisions to include in a solicitation, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and managing training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in awarding, administering, and closing out contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have assisted others in interpreting and applying Federal Government regulations; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine need for a procurement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that were implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications; and/or I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have performed price analysis to determine price reasonableness; and/or I have executed modifications and issued amendments; and/or I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Requisition Regulation (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) to solicit, award, administer, and close-out complex contracts. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements; and/or I have verified safety issues in regard to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. None of the above. 10 The Contracting Officer must be able to make numerous independent decisions with regard to determining type of contract, required clauses and provisions, contract award, resolving issues/ discrepancies affecting contacts, and contract termination. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to contractor inquiries; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contract files to determine that requirements were satisfied. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to contractor performance; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price; and/or I have made decisions to exercise contract option periods. I have determined if the agency was following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have made award decisions; and/or I have determined when to issue contract modifications; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of the contractor to meet contract requirements. None of the above. 11 The Contracting Officer must process the knowledge and expertise to develop and administer specific contract policies and procedures for a particular procurement or project, or for a contracting operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have prepared memoranda addressing contract guidelines; and/or I have assisted with implementation of improvements to procurement operations. I have monitored contracts within the Federal Government; and/or I have provided routine contract policy interpretation to agency personnel; and/or I have made recommendations for changes to Federal agency policies or procedures; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or staff assist visit, and provided recommendations for improvement to the procurement operation. I have monitored local contracts; and/or I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines; and/or I have provided assistance in administering policies and procedures in a Federal Government setting; and/or I have provided oversight for micro purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position; AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. . 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A and B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants who possess the following are preferred: Bureau of Prisons Warrant is preferred. Note: Applicants who possess a quality ranking factor can be ranked above those who do not, but no one can be rated ineligible for failure to possess a quality ranking factor. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position AND I have uploaded a copy of my Bureau of Prisons Warrant. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Contracting Officer must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed organization guidelines to modify or close-out contracts; and/or I have applied a limited number of directives in the Federal Government; and/or I have interpreted agency directives and policies on routine contracts or purchase orders; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, cancellations, terminations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have applied the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Acquisition (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) in soliciting, formulating, awarding, administering, terminating and closing out complex negotiated or sealed bid contracts; and/or I have made decisions to take an alternate course of action that resulted in savings to the Government; and/or I have researched and interpreted case law to support action taken on contracts; and/or I have researched existing sources of supply to utilize an already existing contract or interagency agreement to fulfill a requirement. I have used Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Requisition Regulation (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) in issuing contract modifications; and/or I have followed guidelines in issuing pre-solicitation notices to the Government Point of Entry website; and/or I have applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost and/or technical issues; and/or I have applied procurement regulation in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, services, and construction; and/or I have used agency policy to determine liquidated damages. None of the above. 7 The Contracting Officer must be able to communicate with people of various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to prepare reports, contracts, and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed guidance material for program personnel; and/or I have written and issued contracting officer's final decision on contractor claims or disputes; and/or I have requested legal opinions; and/or I have written summary or recommendations based on legal opinions; and/or I have responded to Congressional inquiries; and/or I have responded to Board of Contract Appeals or the Comptroller General regarding protests or disputes; and/or I have developed and written acquisition training manuals; and/or I have reviewed regional/field contract operations and made recommendations for improvement; and/or I have developed and written policy/procedural changes; and/or I have prepared special reports for management. I have made recommendations for Statements-of-Work to technical staff; and/or I have prepared agendas for pre-proposal and pre-construction conferences; and/or I have written correspondence to contractor/project representative on status of contracts; and/or I have written weekly/monthly reports on contract progress; and/or I have written letters or other documentation for contract file; and/or I have written determinations of responsibility; and/or I have issued contract modifications; and/or I have documented past performances. I have prepared cost/price analyses and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have wrote cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. None of the above. 8 The Contracting Officer must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties. He/she typically meets and deals with contractors, senior corporate officials, state and local officials, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, and Executive Staff. He/she is also responsible for training Program Staff in procurement related topics such as ethics and purchase card procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a training class involving contracting or program staff from various backgrounds; and/or I have presented material to upper level management staff; and/or I have conducted meetings involving contractors, facility staff, and high-level management such as pre-solicitation conferences or pre-construction meetings; and/or I have made presentations at procurement trade fairs and conferences; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to program personnel or field contracting staff; and/or I have conducted negotiations involving changes to contract requirements. I have participated in staff assistance visits or program reviews to advise and improve operations at institutions experiencing procurement problems; and/or I have dealt with high-level business, industry or Government officials in discussing contract issues; and/or I have provided assistance to the technical management team; and/or I have guided lower level staff in day-to-day operations; and/or I have negotiated equitable adjustments; and/or I have conducted procurement training. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to others; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement; and/or I have provided training sessions to program office staff; and/or I have prepared briefings to agency management or Executive Staff. None of the above. 9 The Contracting Officer must have knowledge and expertise of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types, the proper clauses and provisions to include in a solicitation, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and managing training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in awarding, administering, and closing out contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have assisted others in interpreting and applying Federal Government regulations; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine need for a procurement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that were implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications; and/or I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have performed price analysis to determine price reasonableness; and/or I have executed modifications and issued amendments; and/or I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Requisition Regulation (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) to solicit, award, administer, and close-out complex contracts. I have made decisions regarding contract type and required clauses/provisions to include in supply, services or construction solicitations or contracts; and/or I have resolved conflicts with contractors during the contract administration phase; and/or I have conducted various progress meetings with contractors and technical staff during the life of the contract; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis; and/or I have evaluated and made changes to procurement policy and procedures; and/or I have analyzed industry patterns and practices; and/or I have investigated contract claims and disputes; and/or I have performed economic forecasting techniques in preparing procurement plans; and/or I have solicited, negotiated, awarded, administered, and closed out complex contracts. None of the above. 10 The Contracting Officer must be able to make numerous independent decisions with regard to determining type of contract required clauses and provisions, contract award, resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contacts, and contract termination. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined if the agency was following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have made award decisions; and/or I have determined when to issue contract modifications; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of the contractor to meet contract requirements. I have monitored the contractor’s performance in existing contracts; and/or I have determined corrective actions on contracts; and/or I have evaluated and advised management in correcting deficiencies in agency contracting procedures; and/or I have investigated labor violations of contractors and determined appropriate actions; and/or I have audited or reviewed contracts to determine if they were in compliance with federal regulations; and/or I have determined the continuing need for or cancellation of services; and/or I have evaluated modification proposals from contractors; and/or I have settled disputes with contractors. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to contractor performance; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price; and/or I have made decisions to exercise contract option periods. None of the above. 11 The Contracting Officer must process the knowledge and expertise to develop and administer specific contract policies and procedures for a particular procurement or project, or for a contracting operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed contract evaluation and award criteria; and/or I have established contract ordering procedures for a requirements type contract; and/or I have performed contract close-out procedures; and/or I have performed long-range planning and goal setting for the agency; and/or I have provided contract interpretation for agency or contractor personnel; and/or I have developed agency pre-proposal/pre-construction conference guidelines or agendas; and/or I have made changes to agency policy or Program Review Guidelines to assist in meeting the goals of the agency. I have monitored local contracts; and/or I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines; and/or I have provided assistance in administering policies and procedures in a Federal Government setting; and/or I have provided oversight for micro purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions. I have monitored contracts within the Federal Government; and/or I have provided routine contract policy interpretation to agency personnel; and/or I have made recommendations for changes to Federal agency policies or procedures; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or staff assist visit, and provided recommendations for improvement to the procurement operation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).