Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your knowledge of the Congressional Budget Process: Answer to this question is required I have no experience, formal education, or training in performing this task. I have formal education or training in the various tasks in the Congressional budget process but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience in preparing budget requests and justifications for an office and presented justifications to management. I have experience formulating and consolidating Congressional budget justifications, consulting with the managers and staff members to ensure that strategic goals, program activities, performance indicators are properly reflected in the budget justificatication. I have planned, directed and administered the formulation and submission of Congressional Budgets, preparation of materials in support of Congressional testimony on the budget, participated in budget briefings to the Office of Management and Budget and Congressional staff, prepared formal responses to appropriator`s questions. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 5 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 6 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impacts to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operation, provided advice on their impacts to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system. As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system. I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 9 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 10 I have experience in extracting, reviewing, and analyzing the following types of quantitative information: Answer to this question is required Monthly budget expense statements Budget requests Cost estimates None of the above 11 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Students Colleagues Academia Government organizations Congress Foreign audiences Private industry General public Professional organizations None of the above 12 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely fashion. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadline. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.