Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 Regional Physicians must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed medication profiles of patients on a regular basis, eliminating unnecessary medications and identified medications with potential interactions; and/or I have maximized medication compliance by simplifying regimens where possible, taking advantage of medications which can address more than one condition (i.e., an alpha blocker for a patient with both hypertension and prostate enlargement, an ACE inhibitor for a diabetic with high blood pressure, a beta-blocker for a patient with both hypertension and migraine). I have attended continuing education programs sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, where new medications are discussed; and/or I have replaced established medications with more appropriate medications consistent with established and current standards of care; and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient's medications do not appear to be controlling the disease, or when unexpected symptoms arise after a change in medications. I have served as a consultant to other prescribers in regards to appropriate, safe medication regimens; and/or I have intervened on a patient's behalf when a concern about the safety or effectiveness of a medication regimen was raised by a pharmacist or another provider and provided feedback to the patient and the prescriber as to the reasons for the intervention; and/or I have interpreted and applied current evidence based guidelines to select the safest and most effective treatment plan in regards to medications. I have consulted the Physician's Desk Reference, or other written resources prior to prescribing medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions will occur; and/or I have considered input/feedback from other medical professionals prior to prescribing medications to patients; and/or I have objectively reviewed patient requests for new medications they have seen advertised, and determined if the patient will derive any significant benefit, and where no benefit is determined by prescribing the new medication then advised patient of the reasons (i.e., interaction with other medications, significant cost to patient/insurance carrier). None of the above. 7 The Regional Physician is responsible for treating the various medical needs within the confines of various correctional institutions within respective region. He/she must possess comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements, or initiate requirements to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients' chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, EKG's and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., skin biopsies and cryosurgery). I have performed comprehensive history and physical examinations appropriate to the patient's chief complaint; and/or I have developed logical list of probable diagnosis based on patient history and examination and ordered appropriate tests in a logical order to include or exclude the most likely illness; and/or I have independently performed diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within the scope of his/her training and experience (i.e., joint injections and aspirations, skin and subcutaneous biopsies of cancerous or precancerous lesions, flexible sigmoidoscopy, flexible laryngoscopy, exercise treadmill testing). I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turns over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have certified staff in both Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS); and/or I have certified staff in Advanced Trauma Life Support; and/or I have independently interpreted EKG's, pulmonary function tests and appropriately identified acute findings on chest, abdominal, spine and extremity x-rays to determine appropriate initial management based on these findings; and/I have possessed full admission privileges in one or more hospitals to provide inpatient care consistent with his/her training and specialty (for applicants currently practicing in the community). None of the above. 8 The Regional Physician must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations. This knowledge is necessary in order to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care/constraints of a correctional institution health care environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed one year of internship and hold an unrestricted current medical license in one state; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have appropriately documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements. I have researched and applied current evidence-based treatment guidelines applicable to their practice [i.e., American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines for acute coronary syndromes and coronary heart disease, for hyperlipidemia and for hypertension, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines for diabetes, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines for infectious diseases and the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) for screening recommendations for cancer and other chronic diseases); and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education conferences for area of specialty/training; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care, advocating for patient's best interest, when required. I have completed residency training in a primary care specialty (i.e., Family Practice, General Practice, Internal Medicine, Emergency Medicine, Preventive Medicine, Occupational Health); and/or I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals such as American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine or Annals of Internal Medicine. None of the above. 9 The Regional Physician must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates and outside resources in order to coordinate the medical needs and care to a diverse inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, executive staff of the institution, and with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians, insurance carriers, the resolution of complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have spoken as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference on a new medical treatment; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board on medical relations. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have participated in a workgroup/taskforce to resolve medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances, concerns; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. None of the above. 10 The Regional Physician must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population.&nbsp; Other written communications of the Regional Physician may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have dictated history, physicals and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker's compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals or textbooks; and/or I have provided health care services effectively via telemedicine. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).