Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Assisted in the development of plans and criteria for a subsystem of an operating, database or e-mail system. Reviewed and made recommendations to a project leader on network systems software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Monitored/Evaluated a system component of a local area network. Provided adjustments or maintenance on LAN or a mainframe system hardware. Reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or using a systems program. Provided evaluation plans input as a member of a workgroup or team. Designed, tested, installed and/or maintained software for a nationwide computer system. Ran teleprocessing monitors or application servers. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of relational databases. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of network databases. Developed software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested hardware systems for a major hardware platform. Evaluated software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested and configured application software and hardware. Modified an existing IRM system design as instructed. Modified an existing computer program. Worked with Agency's Internet, Intranet and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) development and usage. Monitored agency home page and used security packages and hardware devices to protect information on the web and EDI environment. Assisted in monitoring a system or program. Developed an operational manual, directive and/or agency policy to reflect system modifications and new procedures. Monitored compliance with information security requirements at the regional or local level. Assisted in evaluating plans for an advanced system. Reviewed performance data and compared with similar systems at other locations. Analyzed/examined procedures and policy and made recommendations for local policy. Assisted in the set-up and testing of software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Customer Service : Provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. Participated in staff assistance visits or IT program reviews to advise and improve operations at field locations experiencing problems. Adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate IT needs of the division/office/unit. Provided guidance to staff in modifying existing network design. Provided guidance to staff during the testing and configuration of network hardware from an existing template. Responded to information security and/or audit related questions received from field/region/high level external sources. Implemented and provided training or otherwise disseminated information to regional and local staff regarding their responsibilities for agency security program requirements. Advised management of newly developed cost effective alternative to present IT systems. Oral Communication : Conducted training or other presentations related to network systems. Made frequent contacts with private industry software development contractors or commercial software and hardware vendors. Presented information to manager located in outside agencies or private sector businesses. Facilitated a training class on a new automated system. Problem Solving : Participated in a workgroup to resolve a critical problem in a existing system. Served as a primary resource person for technical problems. Researched local/departmetn problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improve the effectiveness of a program. Recommended adjustments to staff duties to respond to immediate needs of a system problem. Prepared response to program review or other type of audit findings. Determined the vulnerability of local information systems. Researched local/department problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improved the effectiveness of a program. 1 In addition, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicant must have experience in planning for and/or executing software systems disaster recovery plans. Such as planning for and/or executing software redundancy and recovery in a cloud computing environment or on-premises computing environments. AND Applicant must have 18 consecutive months of enterprise software development experience using the Java, C/C++, Rust, or COBOL programming languages. AND Applicant must have development experience using Postgres Structured Query Language (SQL), International Business Machines (IBM) DB2, or equivalent relational database technology on cloud-based or on-premises computing environments. AND Applicant must have development experience for the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Environment. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Software Systems Disaster Recovery Specialist serves as the Bureau of Prisons liaison within the Department of Justice, other government agencies, and throughout the information technology industry, including software and hardware vendors, consultants, and other technical experts within the industry. He/she will be part of the agency&rsquo;s Disaster Recovery/Continuity of Operations Plan, which advises management of critical problems and the recommended solutions associated with the information technology systems management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted a vendor for technical support in resolving end user’s problems; and/or I have obtained user requirements software applications; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a programming problem with existing software. I have presented an oral briefing at executive level on issues having major agency/organization impact; and/or I have represented the agency and negotiated on its behalf on interagency workgroups with other federal and state agencies to develop agency wide and government wide information technology policy initiatives and systems; and/or I have chaired workgroups or project teams tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization-wide programs; and/or I have advised management of critical problems and recommended solutions associated with developing or maintaining information technology systems; and/or I have interacted with senior level staff of national vendors to develop standards, specifications, or policies. I have interacted with other federal agency personnel to provide briefings or training; and/or I have led an internal local planning committee; and/or I have facilitated a negotiation team on an important matter of policy or practice; and/or I have participated in meetings to promote the agency/organization by providing feedback; and/or I have provided resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated a finding from a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and provided corrective actions/recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 4 The Software Systems Disaster Recovery Specialist is responsible for the preparation of software design materials, develops technical documentation, such as systems design, user guides, data flow diagrams, and program specifications. He/she must apply existing documentation by writing programs according to specifications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I written materials used in information technology training courses; and/or I have developed several end-user guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide; and/or I have written a personal computer operation manual; and/or I have developed systems design; and/or I have written technical procedures to be applied by an agency/organization corporation. I have prepared instructional e-mail to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded to inquiries providing guidance and resolving routine computer-related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation; and/or I have prepared budget quotes for product upgrades; and/or I have prepared reports for management justifying infrastructure upgrades; and/or I have assisted in the documentation of findings as a participant of a program review, or comparable external audit. I have developed detail specifications; and/or I have prepared project plans; and/or I have prepared user’s training material; and/or I have documented system upgrades and rollouts on new software solutions (i.e., applications, products and tools); and/or I have established troubleshooting procedures and documented solutions to common problems for reference by others; and/or I have provided technical guidance in designing, coding, testing, debugging, and maintaining programs; and/or I have translated and interpreted functional requirements; and/or I have established innovative techniques and identified measurement and evaluation criteria to determine program effectiveness. None of the above. 5 The Software Systems Disaster Recovery Specialist must estimate resource requirements for systems design in terms of equipment, manpower, and time. Additionally, he/she is required to work on simultaneous projects on a continuous basis. He/she may be assigned oversight responsibility of several programs and must possess the ability to organize, prioritize, and effectively manage workload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed existing and future technical or staffing requirements for projects; and/or I have developed a Statement of Work (SOW) that details the objectives, justification, associated costs, and schedule of completion; and/or I have monitored projects to ensure milestones are being met in a timely matter; and/or I have identified and corrected problems as they arise, and provided detailed reports on the progress of the project. I have determined cost or staffing requirements and planned the installation of application software tools; and/or I have developed a feasibility study which included software/hardware/manpower costs; and/or I have estimated the cost to implement a computer software system and followed through to installation; and/or I have as project leader of a design team, planned, coordinated, and prioritized activities to be accomplished by the group. I have designed and implemented application programs/modified existing programs; and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement a program, including standards, dependencies, and user requirements; and/or I have analyzed statistics and recommended a method to make the program more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. None of the above. 6 The Software Systems Disaster Recovery Specialist must have the ability to design, program and implement sophisticated software to fully automate disaster recovery procedures and backup functions for the SENTRY database and mainframe files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and resolved system design issues in a proactive capacity; and/or I have applied a variety of debugging techniques in resolving complex software problems; and/or I have provided guidance to lower-level computer specialists/programmers in debugging and testing programs; and/or I have identified program problems to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have resolved software/hardware issues when designing a database management system; and/or I have planned and managed migration of databases to new technologies, such as the migration from on-premises computing to Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud; and/or I have investigated, evaluated, and selected tools and methods for improving productivity and software quality throughout a system lifecycle and managed special projects that had a significant impact on the delivery of customer support services (i.e., relocating staff workstations for more efficient cable layout). I have written application design specifications, which included clear specifications of functional and non-functional requirements for information technology solutions (such as using uniform modeling language, entity relationship diagrams/Microsoft Visio); and/or I have developed, implemented and maintained large-scale Web-based software systems; and/or I have worked with one or more of the following language or software development environments: Java, C, C++, Rust, Cobol, Eclipse, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud, JavaEE application servers (such as Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss), Java Spring Framework, Java Quarkus Framework; and/or I have customized software applications to meet specific customer business requirements; and/or I have worked as part of an agile software development team using Agile development methodologies such as Scrum or Scaled Agile. I have resolved system design issues; and/or I have served on a computer security committee to resolve security issues affecting the organization; and/or I have diagnosed and solved system problems as a member of a team to re-design a system; and/or I have coordinated efforts to integrate and install software/hardware components during large-scale computer upgrades; and/or I have prepared memo/instructions outlining the correct operation of a system. None of the above. 7 The Software Systems Disaster Recovery Specialist must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have recommended corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems related to diagnostic or treatment services; and/or I have worked as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate, and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs or services; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).