Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Select the response that most closely match your highest level of experience performing floor maintenance. Answer to this question is required I have worked in building spaces under close guidance of a supervisor to monitor my work. I have cleaned building spaces for supervisory inspection. I have independently cleaned building spaces. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors, such as tile and marble? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or training related to cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors. I have cleaned and maintained carpet with close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently cleaned and maintained carpet and floors. 4 Select the types of floor surfaces you have cleaned. Answer to this question is required Carpet Tile Marble Granite Wood Terrazzo Rubber Concrete Linoleum None of the above 5 Select the types of floor maintenance activities you have performed independently. Answer to this question is required Preventive maintenance (e.g., usage and care of walk-off mats, cleaning areas outside entrances) Daily maintenance (e.g., sweeping, moping) Periodic maintenance (e.g., applying wax) Restorative maintenance (e.g., extracting, grinding, stripping) None of the above 6 Which Floor Maintenance Helper tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Removing difficult stains. Performing stone floor restoration tasks. Waxing and polishing floors. Identifying and removing stains from carpet based on the type of stain and type of carpet affected. Cleaning and maintaining various types of floors. Assisting floor maintenance technicians in performing minor repairs such as patching and color matching stone floors. Moving heavy furniture and equipment to perform cleaning functions such as vacuuming. Removing marks and stains from a variety of surfaces. None of the above. 7 Which instructions and information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Material Safety Data Sheets None of the above 8 I have followed instructions and guidance from my supervisor to apply the correct techniques for removing floor stains. Answer to this question is required True 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 9 What type of heavy powered equipment do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Riding floor buffer Walk behind floor buffer Wall washers Carpet Cleaners/Shampooers Floor Grinding/Honing machines Ride-on sweeper Vacuum Cleaners Burnishing Machines None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to ensure equipment is properly maintained? Answer to this question is required Cleaned and/or replaced buffing pads Cleaned and/or replaced brushes Checked battery fluid levels in portable machines Replenished battery fluid in portable machines None of the above 11 Which duties have performed where you had to observe safety rules to avoid injuring yourself and others? Answer to this question is required Lifting Climbing Handling materials Handling equipment None of the above 12 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 13 Select the activities you have performed to prepare surfaces for cleaning. Answer to this question is required Moved furniture or equipment Pre-vacuumed Swept lose dirt with a broom Gathered needed equipment and supplies Posted caution signs (e.g., wet floor) Notified supervisor of expected timeframe for task completion None of the above 14 Which response best describes your highest level of experience operating, maintaining and repairing floor cleaning equipment? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have independently operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment. I have operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have completed training or education in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have not operated, maintained or repaired floor cleaning equipment. 15 Do you have experience in snow removal by plowing and shoveling hard surfaces (sidewalks, walkways, parking lots, and roads) in challenging/inclement weather conditions for Commercial and Industrial Buildings. And applying ice melt. Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.