Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs. Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels. Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management. Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Recreation Supervisors must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities to ensure the recreational services provided to the inmate population is efficient, effective and meets regulatory standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have tracked expenditures in maintaining positive balances; and/or I have contacted vendors regarding delivery, services, or charges; and/or I have ensured recreation equipment was serviced and maintained as required; and/or I have ensured facilities or designated recreation areas were available as required I have prepared justifications which resulted in the reprogramming of money into section budget; and/or I have submitted justification to management to fund a new program or increase funding for an existing program, which was subsequently approved and implemented; and/or I have implemented an improved space allocation plan; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the agency/organization. I have initiated the timely scheduling of multiple recreation and leisure activities; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs, making adjustments as necessary; and/or I have met internal deadlines; and/or I have volunteered to perform additional duties during a period of staff shortage. I have reconciled budget reports; and/or I have compared vendors in terms of cost, quality of product, and other factors prior to selection; and/or I have made recommendations to management concerning additional funding or positions required based on program needs. I have managed a large operating budget and reallocated funds when required; and/or I have contained costs by implementing methods that eliminated waste or unproductiveness; and/or I have developed and implemented innovative approaches to resolve complex organizational issues; and/or I have analyzed budget and contract expenditures and made recommendations for cost saving measures; and/or I have made recommendations to modify contract. I have effectively maintained recreation programs during a period of staff shortage; and/or I have maintained individual workload while assigned as acting Recreation Supervisor; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted changing priorities to complete last minute assignments. None of the above. 6 Recreation Supervisors must effectively communicate with inmates, subordinate employees, management officials, co-workers, inmates and outside resources to ensure the orderly operation of the department. They must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, and with the Federal Correctional Complex's executive staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in departmental meetings; and/or I have assigned activity schedules to participants; and/or I have scheduled meetings with outside participants; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new fitness equipment available for purchase; and/or I have successfully coordinated a hobby-craft initiative. I have briefed executive staff on issues within and outside of discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have participated in community affairs committee; and/or I have provided formal professional training to mid-level managers. I have, under time constraints, been persuasive in arranging a comprehensive recreational program; and/or I have successfully managed uncooperative inmates, patients or clients when assigning them to groups; and/or I have participated in interdepartmental staff meetings; and/or I have represented an organization at a national level conference. I have worked with union officials to resolve critical issues; and/or I have responded to inmate/staff complaints/concerns; and/or I have counseled hostile/contentious individual in an attempt to change/improve his/her behavior. I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve issues; and/or I have provided inmate/patient/client education (A&O, fitness program goals, etc.); and/or I have contacted and/or negotiated with other recreation facilities, vendors, etc. to obtain required information or to resolve issues. None of the above. 7 Recreation Supervisors are responsible for supervising a staff of Recreation Specialists, recognizing the potential of subordinate staff, and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, they are responsible for providing direction, and guidance to their subordinates in a firm, fair, and objective manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have conducted performance counseling sessions with subordinate employees; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others. I have participated as a member of a team which resulted in an improved recreation process or procedure being implemented; and/or I have sought out by peers for advice and guidance on educational or promotion possibilities; and/or I have assisted in developing and presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. I have led a team which improved the recreation programs and operation; and/or I have assisted staff by providing information or counseling related to educational or promotion possibilities; and/or I have developed and facilitated an internal training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. None of the above. 8 Recreation Supervisors must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. They are responsible for preparing correspondence related to recreational programming needs such as: preparing responses to internal and external audits, assisting in the review and preparation of policy statements, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for staff advertising upcoming training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries; and/or I have participated in an Operational Review or comparable internal audit in the private sector. I have served on a work group which resulted in development of national policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries originating from outside agency; and/or I have written an article which was posted on a web page, or in a professional journal/ newsletter, etc. None of the above. 9 Recreation Supervisors must continuously analyze information regarding Recreation programs and/or services and formulate new or adjust existing policies, plans or programs. Participation must involve course and curriculum development, redesign, and/or innovative development of programs and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future recreation programs and/or research; and/or I have served as a reviewer on a program review team; and/or I have assisted with the modification/development of a recreation data base. I have utilized monitoring systems; and/or I have analyzed specific information and assisted with preparing the annual education report; and/or I have served as a reviewer during an operational review. I have generated computer program (SENTRY) data base roster to analyze institution recreation statistics; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations with similar facility; and/or I have reviewed recreation curriculums annually to ensure compliance with standard. I have utilized annual reports for procedural changes in programs and/or scheduling; and/or I have collected information and made recommendations to increase institution security; and/or I have analyzed computer/(Sentry) data and made recommendations for development of programs/procedures to increase inmate/client/student participation. None of the above. 10 Recreation Supervisors must understand current physiological responses and long term adaptation to exercise/fitness programs. To successfully direct a correctional recreational program, they must posses the ability to establish, direct, and instruct a large number of participants in sports and fitness based programming. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have successfully implemented and supervised physical fitness classes or activity programs (aerobics, calisthenics, and yoga); and/or I have effectively directed and managed sports programs/leagues that required complex scheduling, drafting and coordinating a large group of participants; and/or I have successfully managed a health club or intramural program which included responsibilities for all aspects of maintaining the facility or league (business/personnel/fiscal issues); and/or I have been accredited as a personal trainer or athletic instructor. I have provided formal professional training classes to mid-level staff and managers; and/or I have worked with directing staff on scheduling exercise/fitness or sports programming; and/or I have approved, recommended, or directed large group exercise/fitness based programming; and/or I have provided instruction and/or training to fitness trainers. I have assisted with the design or supervised group fitness or sports leagues; and/or I have successfully implemented program adaptions which resulted in improved health/fitness curriculums; and/or I have made league modifications which enhanced league program; and/or I have proposed fitness based or sports league needs to a supervisor which resulted in newly established rules, guidelines and/or requirements being implemented. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).