Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. 3 Ability to provide executive support.** Demonstrated experience providing office and administrative support to a high-level executive, including tasks such as preparing travel itineraries, assisting in the performance management process, routing documents for signatures, navigating institutional processes to accomplish needs, preparing an executive for a meeting, taking minutes, managing an executive&rsquo;s email correspondence, calendar management, organizing department-wide meetings, taking minutes, executive timekeeping functions, responding to invitations and messages or attending meetings on behalf of the executive. Has a high-level commitment to customer service standards, for both internal and external stakeholders. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert experience providing office and administrative support to a high-level executive, including most of the following tasks: assisting in the performance management process, routing documents for signatures, navigating institutional processes to accomplish needs, preparing an executive for a meeting, taking minutes, managing an executive’s email correspondence, calendar management, organizing department-wide meetings, responding to invitations and messages or attending meetings on behalf of the executive. Has a high-level commitment to customer service standards, for both internal and external stakeholders. Has a track-record showing a mastery of working proactively and independently. Demonstrated substantial experience providing office and administrative support to ahigh-level executive, including many of the following tasks: assisting in the performance management process, routing documents for signatures, navigating institutional processes to accomplish needs, preparing an executive for a meeting, taking minutes, managing an executive’s email correspondence, calendar management, organizing department-wide meetings, responding to invitations and messages or attending meetings on behalf of the executive. Has a high-level commitment to customer service standards, for both internal and external stakeholders. Has a track-record showing a substantial experience working proactively and independently. Demonstrated experience providing office and administrative support to a high-level executive, including some of the following tasks: assisting in the performance management process, routing documents for signatures, navigating institutional processes to accomplish needs, preparing an executive for a meeting, taking minutes, managing an executive’s email correspondence, calendar management, organizing department-wide meetings, responding to invitations and messages or attending meetings on behalf of the executive. Has a high-level commitment to customer service standards, for both internal and external stakeholders. Has a track-record showing a the ability to work proactively and independently. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to exercise judgement.** Exercised sound judgement, discernment and emotional intelligence in complex situations. Experience working with confidential and sensitive information. Experience providing confidential advice and counsel to management. Answer to this question is required Have extensive experience in exercising sound judgement, discernment and emotional intelligence in complex situations, working with confidential and sensitive information, and providing confidential advice and counsel to management. Have considerable experience in exercising sound judgement, discernment and emotional intelligence in complex situations, working with confidential and sensitive information, and providing confidential advice and counsel to management. Have some experience in exercising sound judgement, discernment and emotional intelligence in complex situations, working with confidential and sensitive information, and providing confidential advice and counsel to management. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to write to an executive audience.** Wrote a variety of reports, briefings, talking points, and other materials for executive, congressional, or other high-level stakeholder groups on deadline and with minimal oversight.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Writing was clear, accurate, well-organized, and grammatically correct.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Independently created (from draft to final) a considerable number of reports, briefings, talking points, and other materials for executive or congressional audiences on tight deadlines and with minimal oversight. Independently created (from draft to final) some reports, briefings, talking points, and other materials for executive, congressional, external, and other high-level stakeholder groups on deadline and with minimal oversight. Independently created first drafts of briefings, talking points, and other materials for executive, congressional, external, and other stakeholder groups on deadline and with minimal oversight. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration.&nbsp; Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to present information. Authoritatively presented detailed and complex information in a variety of settings, including settings with large audiences, in small and large group meetings, and in last-minute requests for briefings.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Have extensive experience in authoritatively presenting detailed and complex information in a variety of settings, including in settings with large audiences, in small and large group meetings, and in last-minute requests for briefings. Have some experience in authoritatively presenting detailed and complex information in a variety of settings, including in settings with large audiences, in small and large group meetings, and in last-minute requests for briefings. Have experience in presenting information in small and large group meetings and to public audiences. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to employ systems thinking. Used an independent understanding of department objectives and leadership priorities to recommend and implement high-level change to improve outcomes. Met goals and objectives by synthesizing &nbsp;patterns from small, sometimes disparate effects, processes, or tasks, seeing opportunities for connecting and harmonizing them; and recommending further appropriate action to management. Ability also includes working from high-level outcomes and goals to the incremental steps needed to meet them. Experience working with stakeholders (both in groups and one-on-one) to gather information, synthesize data, and convey a broader, or more unified, or more efficient perspective. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience understanding department objectives and leadership priorities and implementing high-level change to improve outcomes. Applicant's experience includes working from extremely high-level, sometimes abstract, outcomes and goals to the incremental steps needed to meet it. Demonstrated extensive ability to work with stakeholders (in groups and one-on-one) to gather information and convey a broader perspective in challenging environments and proactively discern areas of conflict to find creative ways to resolve them. Has considerable experience understanding department objectives and leadership priorities and implementing high-level change to improve outcomes. Applicant's experience includes working from a high-level, sometimes abstract, outcomes and goals to the incremental steps needed to meet it. Demonstrated extensive ability to work with stakeholders (in groups and one-on-one) to gather information and convey a broader perspective in challenging environments and proactively discern areas of conflict to find creative ways to resolve them. Has experience understanding department objectives and leadership priorities and implementing high-level change to improve outcomes. Applicant's experience includes working from high-level, sometimes abstract, outcomes and goals to the incremental steps needed to meet it. Demonstrated the ability to work with stakeholders (in groups and one-on-one) to gather information and convey a broader perspective in challenging environments and proactively discern areas of conflict to find creative ways to resolve them. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).