Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the private sector applying budgetary principles, practices, and policies to analyze, formulate, monitor, or execute budgets. Examples may include: Performing financial analysis of budgets; conducting analyses, reviews, or special studies of budget-related issues; monitoring obligations and expenditures; tracking funding usage; and assisting with the formulation, preparation, or analysis of annual or multi-year budget estimates. 1 From the following options, please select the one that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the minimum requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years progressively higher-level education leading to such a degree, or LL. B or J.D., if related I have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the private sector I have a combination of education and experience I do not meet any of the requirements above 2 From the following options related to skill in applying budget formulation procedures and processes , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience preparing, compiling, verifying, or formatting annual budget estimates, narrative justifications, or statistical tables experience assisting with budget formulation, including gathering data, updating spreadsheets, or preparing standard budget materials experience coordinating budget-development input with program managers or points of contact using historical cost data or standard budget templates experience gathering, extracting, reviewing, consolidating, or displaying budget data from financial systems or spreadsheets none of the above 3 From the following options related to skill in applying budget execution procedures and processes, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience monitoring and analyzing budget execution, including allocations, obligations, expenditures, spending rates, or potential shortfalls experience reviewing budget or financial documents and identifying discrepancies, funding variations, or execution issues experience preparing recurring budget execution summaries, status reports, or automated exhibits for review by analysts, supervisors, or management experience extracting, reviewing, and analyzing budget information from financial systems to identify variations or trends none of the above 4 From the following options related to skill in reviewing, analyzing, and reporting financial data , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience reviewing monthly expense statements, budget requests, cost estimates, or status-of-funds reports for inconsistencies or discrepancies experience assisting in executing, tracking, reconciling, or reporting on the use of budget resources experience collecting, sorting, checking, or reconciling cost, obligation, or expenditure data for accuracy experience preparing or contributing to standard financial, outlay, continuing-resolution, or funds-distribution reports none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;div&gt;Note: Your response will not be rated or used to determine your qualifications. It will be provided only to the hiring manager for consideration&lt;/div&gt; View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).