Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise, develop and lead a workforce of excellence.** Supervised and led a multi-lingual workforce of excellence, including the following: 1) establishing realistic yet challenging goals and standards; 2) supplying regular, constructive feedback and mentoring staff; 3) seeking active participation of staff in planning, decision making and team building; 4) identifying skills and ability of staff and any skill gaps for current and future needs; 5) providing opportunities for career development/advancement; 6) hiring staff; 7) addressing performance and disciplinary matters; 8) communicating performance expectations; 9) conducting timely and periodic performance evaluations; 10) planning and assigning work; 11) ensuring tasks are appropriately delegated and satisfactorily completed; and 12) fostering an environment valuing merit system principles, workforce excellence, honesty, and integrity focused on ongoing improvement to self, others and customer service. Answer to this question is required In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of excellence and exercised final authority for the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including ALL of the above. Established and implemented annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules for the work of an organization. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of excellence and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including ALL of the above. In a leadership capacity, developed and promoted a workforce of excellence and exercised the full range of personnel and administrative duties for an organization including SEVEN (7) to ELEVEN (11) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide program management oversight and administration. * * Provided program management oversight/administration for a multi-functional program related to cataloging, acquisitions, and training. This also includes the ability to take ownership of the organization&rsquo;s work and results and to determine the most effective methods necessary to get things done. In doing so, performed ALL of the following tasks: 1) provided oversight for programs related to cataloging, acquisitions and training, 2) oversaw and guided short- and long-term strategic planning initiatives, 3) accomplished strategic and organizational goals by ensuring the effective interaction and integration of processes, 4) provided operational services in support of workforce planning goals, 5) setting performance expectations, 6) provides advice, counsel and training to staff, 7) develops policies and guidelines affecting agency programs, and 8) directs, monitors and participates in outreach initiatives. Answer to this question is required Served as a Program Manager for a multi-functional program relating to organizational functions and processes. In doing so, performed ALL of the above tasks. Project teams were multi-disciplinary consisting of employees and clients/customers inside and outside the organization. Responsible for success or failure of the project. Served as a Program Manager for a multi-functional program relating to organizational functions and processes. In doing so, performed at least SEVEN (7) of the above tasks. Project teams were multi-disciplinary consisting of employees and clients/customers inside and outside the organization. Responsible for success or failure of the project. Served as a Program Manager for a multi-functional program relating to organizational functions and processes. In doing so, performed at least SIX (6) of the above tasks. Project teams were multi-disciplinary consisting of employees and clients/customers inside and outside the organization. Responsible for success or failure of the project. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies. ** Applied knowledge of trends in library and information science, integrated library systems and emerging library technologies to other information technologies to carry out inventory control and digital conversion programs and deliver customer services. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of integrated library systems and library technology capabilities for agency-wide library functions and programs. Applied thorough knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities for major library functions and programs for large libraries or very specialized library environments. Applied basic knowledge of integrated library system features and technology capabilities to major library functions and programs. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing in performing supervisory or managerial work. ** Produced written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory or lead responsibilities performed such as: 1) performance evaluations and plans; 2) counseling/disciplinary memos; 3) information for public dissemination in print and/or electronic form; 4) official correspondence; 5) policies and procedures; 6) annual and statistical reports; 7) budgets; and 8) project plans. Answer to this question is required Wrote ALL of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a national or international program area. Wrote FIVE (5) to SEVEN (7) of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. Some materials were recognized as having a significant impact in a program area. Wrote AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the documents listed above in a leadership position in a library environment. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to build and maintain relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds in order to provide consultation or liaison services . Provided consultation or liaison services to exchange information and maintain relationships with persons inside and outside the organization, including professional colleagues and contractors. Answer to this question is required Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization, to develop and implement programs. Coalitions involved high-ranking government officials, senior management officials in partner organizations; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues in academia, associations, government, and industry. Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization, to develop and implement programs. Coalitions involved management officials; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues in government, and industry. Built and maintained coalitions with stakeholders representing multiple units within an agency or organization to develop programs. Coalitions involved management officials; co-workers; and/or professional colleagues within the agency or organization. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).