Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please describe your experience overseeing Architect and Engineering services, contracts and design development, including oversight of building code compliance. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your leadership experience at the managerial level that includes visioning, strategic planning, goal setting and metric development for construction projects. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your demonstrated ability to apply latest technology and/or industry best practices to manage an engineering and design program for large facilities. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your demonstrated experience managing a capital budget, including developing budget forecasts, monitoring expenditures, prioritizing capital investments and ensuring compliance with financial policies. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Please provide your skills in leading, supervising, and managing a multi-disciplined and talented workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale as well as developing , attracting, retaining, and motivating employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.