Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Applicants&nbsp;must have specialized experience, directly related graduate education OR a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described below. Please select the response that best demonstrates how you meet the qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: (1) Supporting project managers and assisting in the design of mechanical engineering projects focused on heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), refrigeration, plumbing, energy and water conservation, Building Automation System (BAS), and Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) for buildings and facilities; (2) Preparing design documents and providing technical advice on the design, installation, testing, acquisition and evaluation efforts for mechanical systems and equipment for buildings and facilities; and (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for mechanical engineering projects. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree in architecture, engineering, building construction, or other field of study related to the duties of this position. I have a combination of the above specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. 2 Do you have experience in design, development, coordination and review of mechanical, plumbing systems, building automation control, and energy management systems and/or equipment with limited oversight? This includes but is not limited to: design calculations and analysis, computer aided drafting, developing technical specifications, reviewing engineering designs (analysis, calculations, drawings, and specification), and recommending acceptance or rejection based upon compliance with codes, design standards, design goals, and energy reduction goals. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in&nbsp;preparing working drawings and specifications to comply with the scope of work and criteria for mechanical and plumbing systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it normally with limited review or oversight by a supervisor or senior employee. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, generally surpassing expectations. 4 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience consulting with contractors, architect and engineer (A&amp;E) firms, and contracting officers to resolve difficult unforeseen problems on design interfaces, regulatory limitations, and to exchange information and expedite work. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently. 5 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting mechanical and plumbing systems and equipment.&nbsp; This includes, but is not limited to, surveying existing systems, verify conditions and issues, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently. 6 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education surveying building conditions to ensure systems and equipment are in compliance with prescribed and generally accepted standards, and the design intent. In addition, consider your experience with systems commissioning when answering this question. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for the GS-12 position includes the following: (1) Designing and/or leading mechanical engineering projects focused on heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), refrigeration, plumbing, energy and water conservation, Building Automation System (BAS), and Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) for buildings and facilities; (2) Planning design work, developing requirements and providing technical advice on the design, installation, testing, acquisition and evaluation efforts for mechanical systems and equipment for buildings and facilities; (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent and/or performing contract/construction administration to ensure adequate oversight of contractor performance for mechanical engineering projects. 2 Do you have experience in design, development, coordination and review of mechanical, plumbing, building automation control, and energy management systems and/or equipment? This includes but is not limited to: design calculations and analysis, computer aided drafting, developing technical specifications, reviewing engineering designs (analysis, calculations, drawings, and specification), and recommending acceptance or rejection based upon compliance with codes, design standards, design goals, and energy reduction goals. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in&nbsp;preparing working drawings and specifications to comply with the scope of work and criteria for mechanical and plumbing systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 4 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience consulting with contractors, architect and engineer (A&amp;E) firms, and contracting officers to resolve difficult unforeseen problems on design interfaces, regulatory limitations, and to exchange information and expedite work. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 5 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting mechanical and plumbing systems and equipment.&nbsp; This includes, but is not limited to, surveying existing systems, verify conditions and issues, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, may be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 6 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education surveying building conditions to ensure systems and equipment are in compliance with prescribed and generally accepted standards, and the design intent. In addition, consider your experience with systems commissioning, when answering this question. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for the GS-13 position includes the following: Designing and/or leading mechanical engineering projects focused on heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), refrigeration, plumbing, energy and water conservation, Building Automation System (BAS), and Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) for buildings and facilities; Planning design work, developing requirements and providing technical advice on the design, installation, testing, acquisition and evaluation efforts for mechanical systems and equipment for buildings and facilities; Serving as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent and/or performing contract/construction administration to ensure adequate oversight of contractor performance for mechanical engineering projects; Providing expert advices to senior colleagues and/or agency officials responsible for broad program operations; Providing significant and innovative recommendations for advancing programs and/or methods. 2 Do you have experience in design, development, coordination and review of mechanical, plumbing, building automation control, and energy management systems and/or equipment? This includes but is not limited to: design calculations and analysis, computer aided drafting, developing technical specifications, reviewing engineering designs (analysis, calculations, drawings, and specification), and recommending acceptance or rejection based upon compliance with codes, design standards, design goals, and energy reduction goals. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in&nbsp;preparing working drawings and specifications to comply with the scope of work and criteria for mechanical and plumbing systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 4 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience consulting with contractors, architect and engineer (A&amp;E) firms, and contracting officers to resolve difficult unforeseen problems on design interfaces, regulatory limitations, and to exchange information and expedite work. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 5 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting mechanical and plumbing systems and equipment.&nbsp; This includes, but is not limited to, surveying existing systems, verify conditions and issues, and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, may be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 6 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education surveying building conditions to ensure systems and equipment are in compliance with prescribed and generally accepted standards, and the design intent. In addition, consider your experience with systems commissioning, when answering this question. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering or architecture. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Do you have an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) certification or Professional Engineer (PE) license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In which design stages have you worked on in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Construction Documents Cost Estimates Post design administration (Submittal review, RFIs, Change Bulletins, Change Orders) Commissioning/Inspection None of the above 4 Select the engineering disciplines/systems for which you have experience in design, design review, coordination, construction administration or installation of equipment or components.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Electrical Mechanical (HVAC) Plumbing Fire Protection Building Automation Controls Elevator Systems None of the above 5 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, and reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects independently. 6 Which tasks have you completed on a recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established schedules/timelines and milestones for a project activities Established project budgets/independent cost estimates Initiated projects and closed out projects Established quality standards Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals' performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 7 Customer service is very important at the Architect of the Capitol. There are multiple facilities management jurisdictions (House of Representatives, Senate, Library of Congress, etc), that each have business practices tailored to their end clients.&nbsp; Choose the statement that best describes your experience dealing with multiple clients with different business practices. Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supporting clients with different business practices; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this. I have never or have seldom performed worked with multiple clients with different business practices. However, I have had education, training or some experience that applies to the effort, and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed these efforts regularly. My work may, at times, may be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires intervention. I perform or have performed these efforts as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this effort without training. 8 Select the contracting tasks and functions you have performed on a recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract Developed Scope of Work or technical requirements documents Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization Engaged in the strategic planning process Procured complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications Evaluate Requests for Proposal (RFPs) Estimate needed resources Shift resources to meet needs Participate in the acquisition process Assess competitive bidding procedures Conduct technical and cost evaluations of proposals Develop independent cost estimates Determine which contract type applies to the situation Reviewed deliverables for technical adequacy Guided and evaluated contractor efforts to ensure compliance None of the above 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with safety planning? Answer to this question is required I have followed safety plans developed by others. I have communicated safety information to others informally. I have performed Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)/Activity Hazard Analysis (AHA) prior to reporting to project worksites. I have developed and/or facilitated safety plan. None of the above 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to oral presentations to clients or superiors. Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience related to oral presentations. I completed training or education related to oral presentation techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have assisted senior staff prepare for presentations by gathering and organizing information. I have presented non-technical information (e.g., project status). I have presented technical information (e.g., design specifications). I have presented strategic information and recommendations (e.g., option summaries with anticipated project impacts). 11 Which of the following have you communicated to customers as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Updated management on the project status Provided recommendations for the readjustment of funds, schedules and tasks associated with the project Communicated with local and Federal agencies to ensure that construction operations are in compliance with safety and environmental regulations and standards Provided technical guidance to lower level employees on technical matters None of the above 12 For which audiences have you written professional documents (e.g., studies, reports, white papers)? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors Subordinates External Clients Oversight committees None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.