Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise, motivate, and lead a workforce of excellence. ** Led, supervised, and managed a diverse workforce and, in so doing, performed the following: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) ensured production &amp; accuracy requirements were met, 4) evaluated work performance including recommending performance standards and ratings, 5) approved/ disapproved leave requests, 6) interviewed candidates, 7) heard and resolved employee complaints, 8) identified and recommended developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational goals &amp; policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality, and 11) created &amp; fostered a culture encouraging fairness to all and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge and application of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science. ** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts and techniques to manage functions and execute programs related to acquisitions, cataloging, or collection development of serials. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a broad range of a major agency and/or library systems environment’s functions and programs. For example, coordinated the cataloging operations of a large-size library collection and coordinated inventory functions. Applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library systems environment. For example, coordinated the cataloging operations at the division level; developed cataloging procedural manual for use at the division level. Applied knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a library program. For example, developed library guides for frequently asked questions related to cataloging procedures and workflow. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze, plan, develop, and execute library programs and projects. ** Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects. Answer to this question is required Managed one or more multi-faceted programs that crossed organizational or functional areas. Served as a supervisory project leader, team leader, or chairperson for working groups, task forces, and/or committees who have been assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or services. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. Managed one or more programs involving several functional areas. Served as a project leader, team leader, or chairperson for one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees which have been assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference library services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or services. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. Managed part of an already established program. Served as a project leader, team leader, or chairperson for one or more working groups, task forces, and/or committees which have been assigned responsibility for projects and programs related to public service, the integration of traditional and emerging digital reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, research, public programs, and/or services. Conceived, organized and developed projects utilizing critical judgment to determine scope, emphasis, approach, appropriate techniques, and manner of presentation. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to exchange information and interact collaboratively with persons inside and outside of an organization, including decision-makers and their staff, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or customers Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as the principal liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in library groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as a liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside OR outside an organization. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. Developed and maintained professional standing through participation in library groups, conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and/or workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside an organization. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide training. Determined and coordinated training needs for staff and assessed the outcomes. Answer to this question is required In a supervisory or leadership capacity, determined the training needs of staff, coordinated the training and assessed the outcomes. Developed and implemented training plans to meet the needs of the organization. In a supervisory or leadership capacity, determined the training needs of staff, coordinated the training and assessed the outcomes. Interpreted and revised existing training plans to meet the needs of the organization. In a support role, surveyed the training needs of staff, assisted in providing some training and assessing the outcomes. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of automated tools, technologies, and metadata standards, such as integrated library systems, digital library applications, and general office software. Used knowledge of automated tools and technologies, such as integrated library systems, digital library applications, and metadata standards, to provide consultation, liaison and cataloging services; provide bibliographic support for development of library collections. Answer to this question is required Used extensive knowledge of automated tools and technologies, including integrated library systems, digital library applications, and metadata standards, to provide consultation, liaison and cataloging services; to provide bibliographic support for development of library collections and to develop research and project materials in the fields of science, medicine and/or agriculture OR archaeology, history, or military science. Used extensive knowledge of automated tools and technologies, including integrated library systems, digital library applications, and metadata standards, to provide consultation, liaison and cataloging services; to provide bibliographic support for development of library collections; and to develop research and project materials. Used knowledge of automated tools and technologies, such as integrated library systems, digital library applications, and metadata standards, to provide consultation, liaison and cataloging services; and to provide bibliographic support for development of library collections. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced various written documents related to the work of this position, including developing the following materials: 1) planning documents, 2) technical proposals, 3) policies and procedures, 4) project plans and reports, 5) formal and informal correspondence, 6) speeches/presentations, 7) performance plans and evaluations, and 8) annual and statistical reports. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, wrote ALL of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote SEVEN (7) of the above documents. As a job responsibility, wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents None of the Above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).