Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described&nbsp;in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). &nbsp;If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU ARE REASSIGNMENT ELIGIBLE for this job and may be considered for selection without &ldquo;competing&rdquo; for this position.&nbsp; Please select the answer below in the question to follow: Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. &nbsp; NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/6/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Legal Assistants coordinate the workflow of a legal office, which has constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in coordinating a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference material information; and/or I have made travel and lodging arrangements for conference participants; and/or I have assisted in planning and coordinating work with other Division/office for special projects. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers to maintain orderly workflow; and/or I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection as assigned by the team leader/supervisor. I have trained co-workers and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made adjustments to accomplish day-to-day work; and/or I have identified beneficial software-hardware for the office and made a recommendation which was approved. I have maintained a docket calendar and coordinated schedules with Clerks of Courts, keeping legal staff (attorneys) informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. None of the above. 3.2 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as FTCA claims, FOIA requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take and compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read incoming correspondence and decided appropriate action; and/or I have provided training on new time and attendance procedures to division timekeepers/keyers; and/or I have proofread reports or documents. I have analyzed and prepared budget reports for the cost center manager and made recommendation for cost-cutting; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted Sentry data; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures for closing case files. I have coordinated compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegal; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned any needed corrections to originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects and/or requests. None of the above. 3.3 Legal Assistants must possess sound communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered sensitive information and composed letters, memos, and forms; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes of a specialized and sensitive nature from internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have edited final correspondence/minutes/notes prepared by others. I have reviewed correspondence, technical in nature, prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared the agenda/program for conferences as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response. I have prepared reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature; and/or I have prepared, proofread and edited miscellaneous correspondence. I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized background information for the supervisor. None of the above. 3.4 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information to a small group; and/or I have contacted a vendor to gather information on a product; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff members. I have responded to individuals with various policy questions; and/or I have provided technical information to courts and/or other administrative bodies; and/or I have presented information during Institution Familiarization training. After an institution incident, I have conducted mass inmate interviews to obtain information; and/or I have interacted with group/team members regarding projects; and/or I have collected information and presented it to the supervisor; and/or I have advised the supervisor of project status. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). &nbsp;If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU ARE REASSIGNMENT ELIGIBLE for this job and may be considered for selection without &ldquo;competing&rdquo; for this position.&nbsp; Please select the answer below in the question to follow: Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. &nbsp; NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/6/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Legal Assistants must be able to clearly and effectively communicate with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups and/or individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided formal training for legal assistant staff; and/or I have provided sensitive case information to other legal staff; and/or I have contacted and exchanged specialized information with a witness in a legal case; and/or I have researched and gathered information to verbally respond to appropriate court/public requests; and/or I have verified or exchanged information with legal staff in the institutions, regions or external legal offices. After an institution incident, I have conducted formal mass inmate interviews to obtain information; and/or I have presented information to a small focus group; and/or I have advised supervisor of project status. I have responded to individuals with various policy questions; and/or I have provided technical information to courts and/or other administrative bodies; and/or I have presented information during Institution Familiarization training. None of the above. 3.2 Legal Assistants coordinate the workflow of a legal office, which has constantly changing priorities, by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office and deal with ever-changing priorities as determined by court imposed deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained co-workers and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made adjustments to accomplish day-to-day work; and/or I have identified beneficial software-hardware for the office and made a recommendation which was approved. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers; and/or to maintain orderly workflow, I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conferences to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection as assigned by team leader/supervisor. I have organized and maintained logging systems for all work categories in office (i.e., Freedom of Information/Privacy Act requests, Congressional inquiries, chronological letter indexes, etc.); and/or I have coordinated, retrieved and assembled various background material for use in projects/litigation, etc.; and/or I have assisted less experienced legal assistants and other staff in meeting all time lines and due dates. I have maintained docket calendar and coordinated schedules with clerks of courts keeping legal staff (attorneys) informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. None of the above. 3.3 Legal Assistants read a variety of documents such as Federal Tort Claims, Freedom of Information requests, Administrative Remedies, and some that are litigation related, in order to make recommendations on an initial course of action to take, to compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegals; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned for corrections to originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects and/or requests and recommended format for organizing information. I have read and interpreted travel regulations to resolve a travel issue/question from lower level staff; and/or I have trained and evaluated, with input provided to team leader/supervisor, clerical staff in using procedural or operations guidelines; and/or after analyzing, I have interpreted/written local office procedures/policies which were adopted by management. I have independently analyzed and prepared budget report for cost center manager and made recommendation for cost-cutting; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted Sentry data; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures for closing case files. None of the above. 3.4 Legal Assistants must possess sound communication skills. They communicate with individuals from other agencies, attorneys, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff and other significant parties. They obtain and exchange factual information regarding various legal issues and proofread and edit their work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered sensitive information and composed letters, memos, and forms; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes of a specialized and sensitive nature from internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have edited final correspondence/minutes/notes prepared by others; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and wrote office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized background information for supervisor. I have reviewed correspondence, technical in nature, prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared preliminary agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering technical information and preparing a congressional response. I have retrieved and interpreted data from computer system (Sentry); and/or I have interpreted regulations and policies regarding the Bureau of Prisons' procedures for Administrative Remedies; and/or I have edited final responses for Administrative Remedies and those of others. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).