Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed standard operating procedure(s). Modified existing network programs. Monitored computer security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Inspected computer sites to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed. Modified existing network programs. Estimated resources needed to implement network. Used existing plans to test specific application programs. Reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Determined availability of space for hardware. Recognized hardware/software problems and resolved. Used technical specification to install hardware/software. Identified problems and referred to second or third tier group for final resolution. Customer Service : Presented information regarding systems requirements and/or resolved problems encountered. Installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors) for end-users. Briefed staff on procedural changes. Provided training to users on new policies. Responded in writing to questions from customers seeking guidance on a routine computer related issue. Attended implementation meetings with customers. Attended design meetings with users. Performed research on user needs. Estimated resources needed to implement a network. Served as computer contact for users on routine or non-critical matters. Analyzed individual user requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions for work assignments. Coordinated efforts in the installation of computer programs. Prepared e-mail instructions to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task. Oral Communication : Contacted vendor for release of new software packages. Contacted vendor for information on retraining staff using another computer language. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Responded to information security and audit related questions. Contacted persons within the agency regarding problematic areas. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Facilitated and provided information technology training. Performed research for IT user needs. Provided support for IT end users and management. Responded to recurring IT external inquiries. Coordinated IT vendor demonstrations for end users and provided an interface with the vendor. Assisted in providing IT formal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Problem Solving : Provided advice and guidance on various IT specialty issues. Isolated a programming problem and referred it appropriately. Ensured corrective actions to restore IT operational service. Oversaw function tests of IT hardware/software to resolve technical problems and ensure appropriate on-site repair. Recognized and resolved IT hardware and software problems. Reviewed IT hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting on PC's and related IT equipment. Detected and corrected a network security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration. Recommended a method to make the network more efficient. Performed routine troubleshooting on PC's. Worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine IT software/hardware problems. Tested specific IT software application programs. Checked intranet system and/or areas requiring security improvements. Resolved routine IT project related issues. Coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager. Analyzed and resolved non-routine network problems. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Supervisory Computer Specialist ensures that computer security measures, as prescribed by policy and program statements, are being followed. He/she must have a broad knowledge of operating systems, database management systems, network and e-mail administration, and peripherals in order to provide oversight of institution and regional computer services support; as well as effectively monitor and evaluate the responsibilities and activities of computer services personnel throughout the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed managers when agency security policies were not followed; and/or I have made recommendations to management for a corrective course of action (i.e., software updates or procedural changes that will adhere to agency policy requirements); and/or I have provided revisions to policy and procedures to ensure network security policies are being followed. I have monitored security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy; and/or I have provided minor adjustments or maintenance on local area network (LAN) or mainframe systems; and/or I have used agency’s security procedures to determine when to implement mitigation action; and/or I have detected and corrected a security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration; and/or I have inspected various employee computer locations to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed; and/or I have installed personal computer (PC) application software or database software routines for use; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. I have updated an educational program on information technology hardware and software security; and/or I have participated in the development of part of a security or personal computer (PC) application; and/or I have planned and engaged in periodic audits to ensure proper measures were being followed; and/or I have revised security procedures; and/or I have enforced security procedures; and/or I have detected and corrected a security deficiency in a software program or in a security system; and/or I have inspected various computer workstations/servers to ensure information security procedures and controls were in place and were consistently followed; and/or I have maintained a system to automatically apply security patches to network resources; and/or I have served as a local authority in the area of personal computers (PC) or mainframe systems. None of the above. 5 The Supervisory Computer Specialist designs, coordinates, installs, and estimates resource requirements for systems equipment to include detailed configuration of large-scale third-generation computer systems, environmental controls, security, electrical requirements, space requirements, and specialized architectural requirements. &nbsp; He/she also manages network infrastructure projects such as equipment upgrades, network software upgrades. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted as a liaison between the project manager and support staff/contractors; and/or I have provided written updates on certain aspects of the project that have been submitted to the project manager for final review; and/or I have provided assistance in monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance; and/or I have installed personal computer (PC) application software or database software routines for users; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers (PC). I have coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager; and/or I have reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred it for appropriate action; and/or I have assisted in providing formal training to others on network operations, protocols, and troubleshooting. I have analyzed existing and future requirements for projects; and/or I have prepared a budget for projects; and/or I have provided a Statement of Work (SOW) that detailed the objectives, justification, associated costs, and timeline of when the project completion; and/or I have monitored projects to ensure milestones are being met in a timely fashion; and/or I have identified and corrected problems as they arose; and/or I have provided detailed reports on the progress of a project. None of the above. 6 The Supervisory Computer Specialist is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. &nbsp; He/she supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long- and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. None of the above. 7 The Supervisory Computer Specialist is responsible for the management Enterprise-Wide Network Management Platform. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed and configured file and application servers for use in a large multi-user network; and/or I have participated on a design team for the planning and implementation of a large multi-user computer network including infrastructure, hardware, software, and capacity requirements; and/or I have performed network systems administration functions including user account administration, data backup/recovery, security updates, application launching, and software upgrades for a large multi-user computer system; and/or I have served as a team leader to re-design a system after the problem was diagnosed; and/or I have integrated and installed hardware components during large-scale computer upgrade. I have tested/analyzed/implemented a tool or technique to increase the efficiency of managing a network; and/or I have assisted in the configuration and operation of local area networks (LAN); and/or I have worked as first tier network operations support staff responsible for identifying local area networks (LAN) problems and referring for further consultation to a second or third tier group for final resolution. I have designed and implemented networks/modified existing networks; and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement network, including standards, protocols, and equipment requirements; and/or I have analyzed statistics and recommended a method to make the network more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. None of the above. 8 The Supervisory Computer Specialist will communicate, orally and in writing, technical information with end users in a non‑technical, clear manner. For example, he/she will write computer documentation, teach computer operation, provide support for end users and management, and serve as an intermediary with other entities. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised department head/managers on the basic computer software; and/or I have assisted with teaching a basic computer class; and/or I have presented department information during a staff meeting. I have contacted a vendor for technical support in resolving end user problems; and/or I have obtained user requirements for information technology equipment/software applications; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a programming problem with existing software; and/or I have updated an existing users guide on how to operate an organization’s computer system; and/or I have obtained user requirements for various types of information technology equipment/software; and/or I have served as a primary resource person for technical problems within the agency/organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of an end-user problem with a system; and/or I have written a guide on how to operate an organization’s computer system. I have contacted vendor for release of new software package; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have explained security procedures and measures in place; and/or I have explained how to insert a page break while using Microsoft Word; and/or I have helped an employee alleviate a printer problem. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).