Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience providing information to aggrieved parties, complainants, supervisors, and managers regarding their rights and obligations in the EEO complaint process in conformance with 29 CRF Part 1614? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting interviews with aggrieved parties, appropriate management officials and other pertinent witnesses? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following Federal laws are you familiar with and can implement? Check all that apply. (Familiar means that you have a clear understanding of each law and how they are related specifically to Equal Employment Opportunity.) Answer to this question is required Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended Equal Pay Act of 1963 Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 All Federal Sector EEO and Civil Rights laws, regulations and Executive Orders None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in preparing detailed counseling reports based on a thorough analysis of the data compiled? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in recognizing, analyzing, and resolving individual EEO-related employment problems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in applying equal opportunity principles to identify and solve problems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following statements best reflect your ability to communicate orally on complex and controversial issues to a broad audience? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in applying sound judgment in resolving interpersonal conflict? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in consulting, conciliating, and mediating allegations of discrimination between contending parties? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in understanding the types of management actions, employment practices, and conditions that constitute major barriers to creating a discrimination-free working environment in various programmatic areas? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience utilizing your knowledge of applicable Federal EEO and personnel laws to identify and analyze those types of management actions, employment practices and conditions that constitute major barriers to creating a discrimination free working environment in various programmatic areas? Answer to this question is required I have no experience education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. This task has been a central or major part of my work, I have trained others in performing this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with internal and external networking sources? This could include staff at all levels, other organizations in the public and private sectors, universities and/or colleges, committees and groups. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.