Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have trained new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments and estimated time and material needs; and/or I have evaluated performance and provided training to new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Carpentry Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e. safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). None of the above. 4 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of the properties, purposes and uses of the materials used in the carpentry trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with the various types of lumber used in building housing framework; and/or I have assembled framework as instructed, using proper size and types of nails; and/or as a crew member, I have become familiar with various materials used as finish work in houses. I have determined the type of lumber needed from the specifications and my knowledge of materials; and/or I have inspected materials upon receipt and rejected defective pieces (split, knotholes, etc.); and/or as a sub-contractor, I have determined the proper material for various types of finishing work. While employed as a carpenter, I have determined the types of lumber needed for a variety of jobs; and/or I have inspected lumber to guarantee quality; and/or I have ordered and inspected quality from specifications of paneling, floor tile, cabinets, etc.; and/or as a maintenance carpenter in a plant, I have determined the types of lumber required for alteration work; and/or I have estimated and ordered all materials necessary to complete a variety of remodeling and alteration products. None of the above. 5 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability required to follow carpentry practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments and other practices of the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been employed as a carpenter for all types of carpentry work; and/or I have repaired and altered various wooden articles and equipment; and/or I have been a carpenter responsible for the sole maintenance in a small plant; and/or I have erected partitions and made alterations to rooms/offices; and/or I have performed final finish work on carpentry (cabinets, furniture, etc.); and/or I have laid out and installed various types of flooring. As a crew member, I have measured lumber and laid out sections; and/or I have used plumb bob and levels; and/or I have manufactured precise joints; and/or I have installed paneling and cabinets; and/or I have laid floors; and/or I have worked under the supervision of section foreman; and/or I have independently installed molding, window sashes, doorframes and stairwells. As a Carpentry Assistant, I have performed all types of carpentry as instructed; and/or I have cut wood from measurements using hand saws; and/or I have erected wooden framework, laid sub-flooring and completed finishing work as directed. None of the above. 6 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked from blueprints, specifications, work orders, etc.; and/or I have utilized technical manuals for specifications, prepared rough drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from foreman to complete tasks. I have followed sketches and instructions to cut wood to proper length; and/or I have erected framework; and/or I have installed paneling. I have translated engineering blueprints for material requirements; and/or I have prepared sketches and drawings to be used by others for various sections; and/or I have checked work of others to ensure strict compliance with blueprints. None of the above. 7 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work and structures from blueprints, and in using measuring tools common to the carpentry trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-cut lumber; and/or I have laid out portions of pre-fabricated materials under the direction of the foreman; and/or I have laid out frame work and finishing work under supervision. I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact needs of lumber and materials; and/or I have laid out work to be completed; and/or from work orders, instructions or sketches, I have laid out all types of finishing work to be completed on a newly constructed home. Using complex blueprints, I have figured types of lumber required and planned the layout of an entire structure; and/or I have used fine measurements in prescribing lengths to be cut; and/or I have made drawings from blueprints for others to follow in laying out sections; and/or I have developed plans. None of the above. 8 Carpentry Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used a variety of hand tools in cutting lumber and nailing sections; and/or I have used power saws set up by the foreman, under supervision; and/or I have assisted in performing finishing work using basic power tools. I have used all hand and power tools; and/or I have set up and operated power saws; and/or I have used standard measuring tools such as rules, tapes, try square, etc.; and/or I have used power drill on occasion; and/or I have performed finishing work using circular saws, power sanders, electric drills and radial saws. I have instructed apprentices in the use of various hand tools in final trim and finishing work; and/or I have set up and operated routers, drills, saber saws, portable power saws, and power sanders; and/or I have used level and plumb bobs; and/or I have performed fine measurements using various tools of the trade. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).