Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 4.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Regional Health System Specialist demonstrates strong oral communication skills when engaging with professional medical and administrative personnel, including Regional Directors, Wardens, Associate Wardens, and elected officials.&nbsp; He/she effectively interacts with healthcare professionals across local, state, and federal government agencies, as well as the public sector, maintaining clear and professional dialogue.&nbsp; He/she conveys information, provides direction, and delegates responsibilities to ensure a seamless coordination of health services operations with field administrators.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to a task force as a resource person; and/or I have attended staff meetings for a health services department; and/or I have provided updates during a conference involving new procedures; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers during meetings on implementation of a new procedure. I have given briefings to upper management; and/or I have, as chairperson, guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have presented current issues and provided resolutions during a meeting; and/or I have conducted group presentations and training; and/or I have led a task force evaluating medical care; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings. I have briefed supervisor on field health service operations and made recommendations for improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations during a meeting; and/or I have assisted in providing updated information during a training course; and/or I have served on an institution committee addressing medical issues; and/or I have organized a Community Relations Board; and/or I have participated in a task force to resolve issues at the institution level; and/or I have participated in an after-action committee, review team, or Institution Character Profile (ICP) team that focused on various issues; and/or I have assisted with a presentation during Annual Training. None of the above. 6 The Regional Health System Specialist prepares reports, correspondence, and responses for the Regional Health Services Administrator, Bureau of Prisons executives, Department of Justice (DOJ), and other government entities. He/she also drafts communications for institutional leadership and external stakeholders, ensuring clear written communication is tailored to various audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared a flyer for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement; and/or I have responded to a request for informal resolution or corrective action. I have prepared comprehensive written evaluations and recommendations for supervisor; and/or I have updated Institution Supplements; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the Bureau of Prisons or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have independently prepared responses to congressional inquiries; and/or I have prepared a response to an internal audit. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have assisted with preparing a response to a congressional inquiry; and/or I have prepared a response to a Request for Administrative Remedy. None of the above. 7 The Regional Health System Specialist oversees the administrative functions of a multidisciplinary health services team.&nbsp; He/she ensures policy compliance, accreditation alignment, and best practices in institutional operations.&nbsp; He/she identifies concerns, assists in corrective actions, advises on policy revisions, and delivers briefings on Bureau trend analyses and dashboards.&nbsp; He/she requires strategic decision-making, creativity, and innovation, especially in the absence of clear guidelines. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored equipment function, scheduled repairs, and maintained stock par levels; and/or I have scheduled internal and external consultant appointments and coordinated tele health program; and/or I have coordinated and monitored inmate movement through bus/airlift and special movement to medical referral centers; and/or I have provided feedback to supervisor regarding compliance with national policy and necessary modifications to local policy or procedures; and/or I have recommended the purchase of major medical equipment. I have served as an acting Assistant Health Services Administrator and/or Health Services Administrator overseeing the health services department activities; and/or I have performed duties as a cost center manager; and/or I have mentored and trained staff; and/or I have recommended cost saving initiatives that were adopted by management; and/or I have collected information and reviewed health services statistical reports; and/or I have determined funding requirements for a health care facility; and/or I have participated on internal committees which resulted in improved health care services being provided; and/or I have modified or proposed new policy statements. I have performed daily operational checks of equipment and troubleshot malfunctions; and/or I have reviewed information needed for consultant visits; and/or I have scheduled inmates for appointments; and/or I have provided escorts and operated tele-medicine equipment; and/or I have assisted with coordinating movement by locating records or medical supplies to transfer inmates; and/or I have performed updates of local policy with instruction from or review by supervisor. None of the above. 8 The Regional Health System Specialist collaborates with institution managers, community health administrators, procurement staff, consultants, and officials from governmental and private sectors to ensure effective health services programs.&nbsp; He/she integrates administrative, logistical, and technical support into healthcare programs, advancing the Bureau of Prisons' mission and improving inmate healthcare delivery. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in group activities or discussions related to patients with identified risks, high risk procedures or practices to reduce risks; and/or I have discussed test results and implication for treatment planning with physicians; and/or I have identified a situation where the level of care provided needed change and made recommendations to appropriate staff. I have provided patient teaching to inmates who are subject to special protocols to improve compliance and documented efforts; and/or I have coordinated preparation of patients having special procedures to assure timely completion and reduce missed appointments; and/or I have identified and obtained supplies or special equipment needed to implement risk mitigation protocols. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have coordinated meetings with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I have facilitated intra-disciplinary health services governing body; and/or I have initiated and performed staff training in areas related to health care administration in compliance with policy. None of the above. 9 The Regional Health System Specialist establishes and manages internal review systems to ensure compliance with accreditation, regulatory, and agency standards.&nbsp; He/she evaluates health services programs, provides recommendations for improvement and promoting consistency across regional institutions and contract correctional facilities. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered a health care program to achieve and/or maintain accreditation; and/or I have served as Reviewer-in-Charge (RIC) of perpetual audits for the health services department; and/or I have monitored health care provided to ensure compliance with health care standards and regulations; and/or I have established and enforced regulations and policies in a medical facility; and/or I have implemented an internal audit, which ensured compliance with governing standards and regulations; and/or I have led or facilitated a review or internal/external audit, or accreditation survey. I have assisted in completing primary source verification of health care provider credentials using general knowledge of national policy requirements; and/or I have participated in a limited capacity in internal/external audits or accreditation survey; and/or I have maintained files and documents needed during audits or surveys; and/or I have utilized general knowledge of continuing medical education (CME) and verified that documented staff Continuing Professional Education training records met or exceeded requirements; and/or I have participated in Health Services Quarterly Committee meetings. I have completed primary source verification of health care provider credentials using knowledge of accreditation survey and national policy requirements; and/or I have identified documents required during reviews or surveys, (i.e., credential files, biomedical equipment maintenance reports, Safety and Data System records and fire drills); and/or I have maintained Continuing Professional Education training records for Health Services Unit staff; and/or I have participated as a team member of a perpetual audit; and/or I have audited records to ensure mandatory requirements have been met; and/or I have completed training requests for approval; and/or I have taken a leading role in emergency drills, fire drills, American Disabilities Act (ADA) modifications or safety activities. None of the above. 10 The Regional Health System Specialist manages fiscal operations for regional health services, oversees budget planning, financial analysis, and healthcare cost assessments.&nbsp; He/she evaluates financial systems, contracting, and procurement, leveraging data-driven insights to enhance both administrative and healthcare functions.&nbsp; He/she provides strategic recommendations to the Regional Health Services Administrator (RHSA) and applies strong judgment and ingenuity to develop innovative, cost-effective solutions that improve healthcare quality and efficiency. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently prepared documents for business office for goods or services; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have tracked medical expenditures to maintain a positive balance; and/or I have coordinated with vendors regarding the delivery of services or the resolution of price discrepancy as a Purchase Card Holder; and/or I have prepared annual budget reports; and/or I have authorized payments for contract facility medical bills as a Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR Level 1). I have processed Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) reports for evaluating services; and/or I have, under direction of supervisor, prepared documents for business office for goods or services; and/or I have assisted others to complete a Request for Contracting Action packet; and/or I have used information from Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) to advise Cost Center Manager of on going status of Health Services Unit budget. I have identified which contracts are currently in effect for Health Services Unit, and what services are required under the Statement of Work; and/or I have developed draft documents for review and completion by supervisor using knowledge of the elements required for a Request for Contracting Action (RCA) packet; and/or I have compiled data from various sources and formats for supervisor's review; and/or I have participated in management assessments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).