Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: (1) Managing or overseeing environmental engineering or environmental compliance programs; (2) Interpreting and applying Federal, state, or local environmental laws and regulations; (3) Interacting with regulators and industry peers or counterparts; (4) Leading environmental projects involving permitting, compliance inspections, pollution prevention, environmental assessments, or sustainability initiatives; (5) Providing technical guidance related to environmental engineering, environmental protection, or regulatory compliance; and (6) Supervising staff, leading teams, or managing environmental program operations. 3 Have you served in a supervisory capacity with responsibility for planning and assigning work to subordinate employees, monitoring and evaluating their performance, and counseling or disciplining employees regarding performance, conduct, or failure to perform satisfactorily?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards, ensured a mutual understanding of the standards, and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Managed the organizational unit’s budget and workload. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development programs to facilitate change and communication. Provided leadership to ensure support for equal employment opportunity (EEO) goals and requirements. None of the above. 5 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Managed Quality Assurance on a project Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 6 Which statement best describes your experience managing environmental engineering or environmental compliance programs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have assisted others with environmental engineering or compliance activities. I have independently managed environmental engineering or compliance projects. I have managed multiple environmental engineering or compliance programs and provided technical guidance to others. I have led organization wide environmental engineering or compliance programs and served as the recognized technical authority. 7 Which of the following best describes your project management experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a team member, contributing to the team's activities and efforts in carrying out a work project. In support of the team's activities and efforts, I have been assigned responsibility for the accomplishment of components of projects. I have assisted in the management of projects by performing key tasks such as developing project plans, scheduling milestones, developing requirements, estimating costs and budgets, and monitoring and drafting progress reports. I have been a project manager with responsibility to formulate, execute and complete projects. I have led and directed project team members, obtained necessary project approvals and authorizations, and reported progress and results attained upon completion. I have been a project manager for one or more complex projects. I have been responsible for initiating projects, establishing priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects, making resource decisions for competing projects, including negotiating budgets, controlling costs, securing required human and technology resources, planning and executing the work plan and directing assigned team members in producing quality deliverables, results and outcomes, and closing out the project. None of the above 8 Do you have experience in the planning, management, monitoring, and administration of Environmental compliance projects for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 For which industries or facility types have you performed environmental compliance audits and inspections? Answer to this question is required Facility management support shops Industrial wastewater discharges Occupied buildings undergoing construction Stormwater management zones and construction sites Industrial operations None of the above 10 Which laws, regulations, codes, or standards have you interpreted and applied at work? Answer to this question is required Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations 40 CFRs Maryland, Virginia and/or District of Columbia regulations Other state and local environmental regulatory agencies None of the above 11 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 12 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 13 Which of the following describes your experience communicating information in written format? Answer to this question is required I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have developed written safety and health policies or Standard Operating Procedures. I have written official directives, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings and recommendations. I have written health and safety plans for construction/industrial worksites. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 14 Select all responses to the following statements that apply to your experience communicating with others orally. Answer to this question is required Conducting and/or facilitating working group discussions. Conducting and/or facilitating formal meetings. Interviewing people to elicit facts or obtain information. Consulting or advising on occupational safety and health issues. Communicating results of evaluations or reviews. Presenting complex, technical information to persons unfamiliar with the subject. Providing safety and health training requiring oral presentation. Providing instructions, training, and advice to other professional employees. None of the above 15 Please describe your experience dealing with difficult (poor performing and/or poor attitude) subordinates or employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 17 Which statement best describes your experience of responding to environmental incidents, spills, releases, or regulatory enforcement actions? Answer to this question is required No experience. Assisted in response activities. Participated in investigations and corrective actions. Led incident response, investigations, and corrective action implementation. Served as the senior technical authority responsible for organizational response and regulatory coordination. 18 Select all of the environmental program areas in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Environmental Compliance Hazardous Waste Management Air Quality Programs Water Quality Programs Spill Prevention and Response Environmental Permitting Sustainability Programs Environmental Management Systems Pollution Prevention Environmental Auditing Construction Environmental Compliance None of the Above 19 &nbsp;Which statement best describes your experience interpreting and applying environmental laws, regulations, and standards? Answer to this question is required No experience. Basic familiarity with environmental regulations. Applied environmental regulations to routine assignments. Provided guidance regarding environmental regulations and compliance requirements. Served as the technical authority responsible for interpreting and implementing environmental regulations across an organization. 20 &nbsp;Which statement best describes your experience developing environmental policies, procedures, or compliance programs? Answer to this question is required No experience. Assisted in developing policies or procedures. Developed policies or procedures for a specific program area. Led the development and implementation of environmental policies affecting multiple programs. Established agency wide environmental policies and strategic initiatives. 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.