Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices best describes the type of assignments or projects you have completed? Answer to this question is required Group assignments / projects Independent assignments / projects Assignments / projects that contain tight timelines Assignments / projects that do not have deadlines None of the above 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa and immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa and immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa and immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa issues or have been published on these subjects. 3 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 4 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with the software development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the software development process. I have knowledge of, or education in, the software development process but no experience. I have performed tasks as directed by the project lead on a software development project. I have led a phase of a software development project. I have directed a software development project through the full life cycle from inception to sustained production. 5 Which of the following describes your ability to mediate differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution? Answer to this question is required I have trained people in the mediation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have successfully led the meditation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have assisted in the mediation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have participated in situations where others mediated a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have education or training in mediation problem solving, but have not yet applied this skill in the work environment. None of the above. 6 Which of the following critical thinking skills do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Recognizing problems and finding workable solutions Understanding the importance of prioritization and order of precedence in problem solving Interpreting data to predict an outcome Testing conclusions to check for accuracy None of the above 7 With which of the following IT topics do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Cloud implementations and development Business Process Automation (BPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Advanced simulations Software architecture Enterprise architecture SecDevOps Agile software development Secure Software Development Life Cycle (SSDLC) Application security Static code analysis Dynamic application security testing UX / UI Open source Source control Large-scale application and/or data migrations Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) integration Mobile application development Data analysis SQL queries Technical documentation None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.