Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to organize, plan, direct, and review the work of team members. ** Organized, planned, directed, and reviewed the work of team members and in doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) planned work for subordinates; 2) set short-term and long-term work priorities; 3) assigned work based on employee priorities and capabilities; 4) interviewed candidates for positions; 5) communicated organizational policies to staff and dealt with officials of other organizational units; 6) identified training and developmental needs; and 7) improved production and quality of work. Answer to this question is required Exercised FULL leader responsibilities for an organizational work unit including ALL of the tasks listed above. Exercised a RANGE of leader responsibilities for an organizational work unit including FIVE or SIX of the tasks listed above. Exercised a SUPPORTING role in organizing, planning, and/or reviewing the work of a team and in doing so, performed FOUR of the tasks listed above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the Federal budget process and financial management practices and procedures including planning, formulation, justification and execution. ** Planned, prepared, justified, and executed budgets for an organization. This included the following activities: 1) participating in agency financial planning activities; 2) forecasting both near and long term budget requirements for ongoing and future operations; 3) developing and reviewing internal agency budget proposals for new initiatives; 4) preparing budget justifications for internal and external audiences; 5) evaluating annual acquisition plans (including IT); 6) monitoring the execution of obligations and expenditures for all budget lines; 7) preparing monthly and quarterly status of funds reports identifying and articulating areas of interest; and 8) developing and reviewing spending plans and hiring plans. Answer to this question is required Managed all phases of budget planning, programming, formulating, presenting, executing, and evaluating for a complex Federal budget at the agency level with multiple funds and encompassing multi-year substantive programs at the agency level. Performed ALL of the activities listed above and developed agency budgetary policies and procedures. Provided advice to executives at a federal agency or department level or equivalent on budgetary policies and procedures. Conducted all phases of budget formulation, presentation, and execution for one or more national programs and program counterparts within the agency or other agencies. Performed ALL of the activities listed above. Provided advice to executives at a federal agency or department level or equivalent on budgetary policies and procedures. Provided advice and analysis on a wide variety of administrative and budgetary activities connected with the review, justification, and presentation of the budget for an agency or major component(s), such as developing cost-benefit analysis of proposed budgetary and program actions and providing advice on the most advantageous courses of action. Performed SIX of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge, experience and ability utilizing information technology systems. ** Used computer technology to perform financial analysis, reporting, and related analysis for an organization including: 1) centralized automated financial management system (e.g., Library of Congress Budgeting System (LCBS) and Momentum); 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 3) presentations (e.g., PowerPoint); 4) automated report generating system (e.g., Crystal Reports); 5) word processing; and 6) Human Resources systems such as EmpowHR. Answer to this question is required Used ALL of the above software systems to perform financial management activities in the Federal sector. Used FIVE of the above software systems to support the financial management activities in the Federal sector. Used FOUR of the above software systems to support the financial management activities in the Federal sector. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge and experience of program and support functions in an organization. Applied knowledge of program and support functions in an organization including agency programs, personnel management, information technology management, facilities, contracting, and planning including: 1) library programs; 2) understanding the link between budget and information technology management; 3) understanding of the interaction between budget, human resources and organization hiring plans; 4) understanding the link between the budget and the strategic plan; 5) understanding the relationship between budget execution and contracting; and 6) understanding the relationship between budget and the maintenance of facilities. Answer to this question is required Applied broad knowledge of program and support functions and related processes for an organization including ALL of the above. Applied broad knowledge of program and support functions and related processes for an organization including FOUR or FIVE of the above. Applied broad knowledge of program and support functions and related processes for an organization including THREE of the above. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to gather, compile, and analyze financial information. Provided analysis of financial data derived from various sources, drawing conclusions, inferences and making recommendations. Answer to this question is required Established and maintained the methodologies to collect and analyze data. Made authoritative judgments concerning the treatment of budgetary/financial data and decided which analytical methods would be applied, and when and where to apply them. Responsible for report preparation, compiled specialized program-related narrative/statistical data from various sources, used analysis techniques to solve financial problems, and provided advice and recommendations to the senior leadership of an agency. Established and maintained the methodologies to collect and analyze data. Made authoritative judgments concerning the treatment of budgetary/financial data and decided which analytical methods would be applied, and when and where to apply them. Prepared reports compiled specialized program-related narrative/statistical data from a variety of sources and used analysis techniques to solve financial problems. Prepared reports compiled specialized program-related narrative/statistical data from a variety of sources and used analysis techniques to solve financial problems. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others across the organization and provide liaison support in consolidating or resolving high level financial matters. As a leader, team member or liaison; worked well and cooperated with others including decision-makers, supervisors, other managers and their staff, other specialists, and experts in the same and other disciplines inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required As a KEY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated an AGENCY-WIDE effort, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues. For example, led a collaborative effort that involved gathering financial data from multiple organizations into a coherent, comprehensive, budgetary or execution conclusion or resolution. As a KEY job responsibility, coordinated and integrated a DIVISION OR UNIT-WIDE effort, requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial, budgetary and execution issues Coordinated and integrated a significant effort requiring collaboration with others holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals on significant financial budgetary and execution issues. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated in written form budget justifications, issue papers, budget guidance, congressional questions and financial analysis to convey information such as planning, programming, and budgetary policy; budget reports, responding to congressional questions for the record and instructions for financial execution and evaluation. Answer to this question is required Took a leadership role in preparing written budgetary materials for distribution within the agency or organization. Reviewed extensive written justifications related to detailed proposed Library of Congress budgets. Developed and reviewed legislative and regulatory guidance and advice for agency budget formulation and overall fiscal policy issues. Managed subordinates who prepared reports; utilized data from various sources to develop written analysis and recommended solutions. Took a leadership role in preparing written budgetary materials for distribution within the agency or organization. Compiled specialized written communications derived from a variety of sources. Cited analytical techniques used to identify solutions incorporated in a written product. Participated in preparing written detailed analyses and estimates of funding needs for one or more future budget years. Contributes to written budgeting activities, including gathering, comparing, and correlating information about projected costs of current and future programs and activities. Prepared specific letters, budget justification materials for signature and/or transmittal by the agency head to the Congress or other external entities. None of the Above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).