Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Support Coordinator compose non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. Additionally, he/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings, using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have reviewed non-sensitive correspondence prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conferences as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have, as instructed, prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Support Coordinator is responsible for planning and organizing work under general supervision. He/she must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and must efficiently use the time and resources available to them. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed tasks as assigned within the prescribed time period; and/or I have recognized often, short time frames and requested assistance/guidance prior to the due date; and/or I have made personal “task/checklists” for various projects in order to remember specific information that must be completed. I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have ensured office supplies were maintained and placed order before depleted; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have pulled/ran reports when requested/as directed; and/or I have prioritized daily tasks under supervision; and/or I have consulted supervisor on guidance for completion of tasks. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Support Coordinator coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day to day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner as well as devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained supervisor’s daily schedule insuring preparedness for various meetings, etc.; and/or I have rescheduled and/or canceled appointments for supervisor when conflicts arise; and/or I have arranged for substitute administrative/clerical personnel based on scheduled leave. I have trained fellow employees and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have prioritized tasks to ensure deadlines were met; and/or I have monitored and kept the supervisor abreast of the cost center budget; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants, coordinating training for participants, and preparing conference material/information, etc.; and/or I have coordinated work with other subdivisions for special projects; and/or I have established a new filing system or other data collection system; and/or I have evaluated software/hardware and made a recommendation for selection. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including GroupWise, Word, Excel, Access, SGRAC databases, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data and, provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have successfully completed a training course for a presentations software; and/or I have prepared basic documents and/or forms using a word processing application. I have entered and retrieved data using Access, Excel or similar software; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have researched and retrieved information from Sallyport/internet. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Support Coordinator reads a variety of documents, such as regulation, procedural guides, policies, style manuals and correspondence, in order to maintain files, review outgoing material, and compile background information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed grammar and format of documents returned to originator with corrections; and/or I have assisted with the collection of data according to guidelines or procedures; and/or I have reviewed Time and Attendance records for compliance with policy. I have ensured office procedures meet organization’s needs and are consistently understood/ followed in subordinate offices; and/or I have assisted co-worker with collecting data; and/or I have ensured internal documentation was routed in accordance with policy. I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned to originator with corrections; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have provided information on specific subjects related to the mission of the office to interested parties upon request. None of the above. 7 The Administrative Support Coordinator handles verbal inquiries ranging from staff at the DSCC, to officials such as Wardens, Regional Directors other federal, state and local, officials/staff, and the public. He/she directs calls, provides assistance and answers questions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a division/unit/office retreat; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers. I have explained visiting procedures; and/or I have assisted in training others in routine office procedures; and/or I have briefed supervisor of workload/issues/concerns/questions on a recurring basis. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).