Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience applying the standards of the Director of National Intelligence Community Directives (ICDs). Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training applying the standards of the Director of National Intelligence Community Directives (ICDs). I have completed formal education or training pertaining to the application of the standards of the Director of National Intelligence Community Directives (ICDs), but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have applied the standards of the Director of National Intelligence Community Directives (ICDs) and related issues under close supervision. I have applied the standards of the Director of National Intelligence Community Directives (ICDs) as a regular part of a job, independently without supervision. 2 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your ability to conduct reviews and evaluate the effectiveness of and to develop human resource employment programs in the Federal Government environment: Answer to this question is required I have conducted employment program reviews and evaluated the effectiveness of current policies and practices to develop and recommend improvements. I have served as a project manager or team leader conducting employment program and policy reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of current policies, procedures and practices and developed and recommended innovative programs to improve or enhance current human resources services and ensure that services meet managements business objectives and goals. I have consulted with employees and supervisors to gather information/job facts regarding polices and procedures. I have participated in employment program reviews and provided recommendations on methods of improving agency performance. None of the above. 3 Choose the statement that BEST describes your experience developing HR policies or procedures and coordinating the organization`s responses to legislative, regulatory or other proposals affecting HR programs. Answer to this question is required I performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the agency headquarters level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I received formal recognition of highly-successful perfomance of this work, e.g., through awards and/or performance appraisals. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the agency headquarters level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the bureau (or equivalent) level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I performed this task independently, but not as a regular part of my job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I assisted with this task, but was not the main policy coordinator. 4 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to develop an expansive professional network with other organizations and to identify the internal and external customers that impact the work of the organization. Answer to this question is required I have developed and enhanced alliances with both internal and external groups (i.e. other agencies or firms, state and local government, and clientele groups) to engage in cross-functional activities to find common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have enhanced alliances and maintained working relationships with internal and external groups to find mutually beneficial solutions and collaborate on a variety of human resources issues. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units to build and strengthen internal support bases and obtain understanding and support from higher level management. I have effectively developed networks and have built alliances with key individuals or groups. None of the above. 5 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to exercise initiative. Answer to this question is required I have recommended actions to achieve a benefit or advantage. I have designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have participated in a group designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have developed innovative solutions and non-traditional approaches to identify opportunities for improvement in job performance which contribute to overall organizational effectiveness. None of the above. 6 Select from the descriptions below the response that BEST describes your experience researching, analyzing and interpreting human resources management and federal personnel employment laws, rules and regulations: Answer to this question is required I have conducted research and analysis to provide recommendations and influence the formulation and development of human resources employment policy. I have utilized various sources such as the Title 5 USC, 5 CFR, Merit Systems Protection Board, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines to perform daily work. I have conducted research and provided analysis for managements use in identifying current skill sets, skill gap closure techniques and facilitated recruitment, training / development, performance management and retention strategies. I have conducted research and analysis of human resources laws, regulations and best practices in order to develop methods and procedures for implementation to improve and enhance human resource programs in relationship to an organizations mission and strategic goals and objectives. None of the above. 7 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 8 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 9 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 10 Adapt behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles. Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 11 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicts. I have experience resolving conflicts that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience resolving conflicts that require analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience resolving conflicts that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have training in conflict resolution, but I have not applied this knowledge in a work environment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.