Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12. In addition to the basic requirement, &nbsp;applicants must have: (1) two years experience as a practicing attorney; OR (2)&nbsp;one year of experience as a practicing attorney (see the specialized experience requirement) and a second professional law degree (LL.M). Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. and have two years of experience as a practicing attorney with specialized experience. I possess a J.D. or LL.B and have one year of experience as a practicing attorney and a second professional law degree (LL.M). I do not possess the experience or education as described above. 2 GS-12: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-11 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience assisting with research, analysis and persuasive writing (which may include opinions, briefs, pleadings, or motions) relating to difficult legal questions involving two or more of the following legal areas of expertise: ethics, procurement, fiscal law, intellectual property, privacy, or negotiating settlement agreements. I do not possess the experience as described above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13. In addition to the basic requirement and qualifying specialized experience, &nbsp;applicants must have three years of experience as a practicing attorney. Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. and have three years of experience as a practicing attorney with specialized experience. I do not possess the experience or education as described above. 2 GS-13: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-12 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as completing research, analysis and persuasive writing (which may include opinions, briefs, pleadings, or motions) relating to difficult legal questions involving the following legal areas of expertise: 1) labor and employment law (including human resources matters); and 2) ethics, procurement, fiscal law, intellectual property, privacy, and negotiating settlement agreements. I do not possess the experience as described above. Grade: 14 1 GS-14. In addition to the basic requirement and qualifying specialized experience, &nbsp;applicants must have four years as a practicing attorney. Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. and have four years of experience as a practicing attorney with specialized experience. I do not possess the experience or education as described above. 2 GS-14: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-13 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as independently completing research, analysis and persuasive writing (which may include opinions, briefs, pleadings, or motions) relating to difficult legal questions involving 1) labor and employment law (including human resources matters and representing clients before the EEOC and MSPB); and 2) ethics, procurement, fiscal law, intellectual property, and negotiating settlement agreements. I do not possess the experience as described above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 In which of the following subject matter areas have you drafted legal documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ethics Budget and appropriations Intellectual Property Labor and employment Procurement Contract drafting None of the above. 12 Have you handled ULPs before the FLRA? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you drafted or revised agency policies and regulations implementing ethics statutes and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Do you have experience conducting group training sessions in government ethics including the Hatch Act? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following tasks do you have experience with: Answer to this question is required Negotiated Contracts Negotiated Settlements Reviewed federal government contracts for legal sufficiency Drafted legal documents Reviewed legal documents Provided guidance on fiscal law issues Provided guidance on appropriations issues Practiced administrative litigation None of the above 16 Have you drafted written ethics advice regarding the rules of seeking employment and post employment restrictions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you provided ethics advice regarding outside activities or employment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you drafted ethics agreements and screening arrangements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you imposed remedies for resolving conflicts of interest? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Select the areas in which you have had demonstrated experience. Answer to this question is required Drafting or revising agency policies and regulations implementing ethics statutes and regulations. Conducting training sessions in government ethics or the Hatch Act. Providing ethics advice regarding the rules for seeking employment and post employment restrictions. Providing ethics advice regarding outside activities or employment. Reviewing public and financial disclosure forms. Imposing remedies for resolving conflicts of interest. None of the above. 21 Have you conducted pre-trial litigation resulting in hearings before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and/or the Merit Systems Protection Board? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 Select the statement below that best describes your experience interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters. I have education or training interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters, but I do not perform these duties as part of a job. I have experience, under close supervision, with interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters. I have experience interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters. I have supervised and/or trained others on interpreting statutes, regulations, case law and procedures relevant to labor and employment law, including Equal Employment Opportunity, Merit Systems Protection Board and union (Collective Bargaining Agreement and unfair labor practice) matters. 23 What contracting methods have you used for procurement? Answer to this question is required Micro purchases (less than $3,500). Simplified Acquisitions. GSA Federal Supply Schedule Buys. Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity Contracts (IDIQ). Multiple Award, Indefinite Quantity Contracts (MAIQ). 8a contracts/orders. Sole source. Full and open competition. Firm Fixed Price Contracts. Interagency Agreements (IAA). Government-wide Agency Contracts (GWAC). Incentive Contracts. Time and Materials. Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA). Letter contracts. None of the above. 24 Identify your specific experience with the preparation, award or business processes relating to the following types of procurement actions. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Fixed prices purchase order above $25,000 Contracts above $100,000 Contracts above $500,000 Contracts above $1,000,000 Orders based on Federal Supply Schedules/GWACS Contracts for commercial items and services Blanket Purchase Agreements Indefinite quantity/Indefinite delivery (IDIQ) contracts Interagency Agreements Cooperative Agreements Credit Card Programs None of the above 25 Choose the statements that best describe your experience with the Federal procurement process. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert on the Federal procurement process and am often asked questions on the intricacies of the process. I am very knowledgeable of the Federal procurement process and have given instruction to others, formally/ informally on the process. I have worked closely with a federal contracting officer through the Federal procurement process. I have been involved with procuring contracts through the Federal Procurement process. None of the above. 26 Select from the list below, which type of contracts you have executed and administered in performing activities such as planning, developing, negotiating, awarding, and contract administration task: Answer to this question is required Fixed-Price Contracts Interagency Agreement Incentive Contracts Indefinite Delivery Contracts Letter Contracts Labor Hour Contracts Multi-year Contracts None of the above 27 Choose the answer that best describes your experience litigating employment issues: Answer to this question is required I have assisted others in preparation for appearance before the MSPB and EEOC. I have co-chaired cases before the MSPB and EEOC. I have supervised others handling cases before the MSPB and EEOC. I have experience practicing employment litigation outside of the U.S. government. I have no experience in employment litigation. 28 Please select the areas in which you have had demonstrated experience interpreting and applying the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Answer to this question is required Reviewing contracts for legal sufficiency. Advising on issues pertaining to grants. Advising on issues pertaining to interagency agreements. Advising on issues pertaining to a protest. None of the above. 29 I have prepared the following written legal documents: Answer to this question is required Correspondence Statement of claims Releases Closing documents Fact Summaries/Statements of Fact Summaries of substantive and procedural issues Pleadings Memoranda of law Hearing/trial briefs Stipulations Settlement agreements None of the above 30 Evaluate your experience giving oral presentations to convey legal and factual information and technical details. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment using various communication tools such as slide presentations, briefing charts, and/or graphics to a variety of groups on a variety of topics. I have given oral presentations in a professional work environment to small groups that are familiar with the topic. I have given oral presentations as part of my coursework in an educational setting. I have not given oral presentations in an educational or professional work environment. 31 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 32 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty 33 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).