Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications. I also have at least one year of that experience that was at or above the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service, or its equivalent with state or local government, the private sector, or nongovernmental organization. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently serving under a career Senior Executive Service appointment, eligible for reinstatement into the Senior Executive Service, or have you successfully completed a Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program approved by OPM? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Current SES Career Appointees, SES Reinstatement Eligibles, and OPM Candidate Development Program graduates are not required to complete the Executive Core Qualifications listed below; however, you must address the mandatory technical competencies. The Core Focus of the ECQs are cross-cutting and should be addressed within your two-page resume.&nbsp; The following are the foundation for success in each of the ECQs below: Constitutional fidelity and service to the American people; Efficient resource use, cost-saving, process modernization; Technical excellence and high-quality performance; Team leadership, accountability, performance culture; and Meeting and exceeding mission-aligned goals. ECQ 1 - This core qualification encompasses the ability to uphold the Constitution and American governing ideals - a foundation for federal leadership. ECQ 2 - This core qualification involves the ability to demonstrate effective resource management, budget discipline, waste reduction, and leveraging technology or process improvements. ECQ 3 - This core qualification stresses the delivering of exceptional quality work through technical skill, knowledge, and reliable performance. ECQ 4 - This ECQ involves the ability to inspire and guide teams toward mission objectives while fostering accountability, performance, and adaptability. ECQ 5 - This core qualification involves consistently delivering outcomes aligned with organizational goals and the broader mission set by leadership. MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS:&nbsp; All candidates must address the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications within their two-page resume. MTQ 1- Demonstrated expert knowledge of communications law, administrative law, and federal regulatory processes governing telecommunications, spectrum use, and emergency communications systems, including experience interpreting and applying statutes such as the Communications Act; developing rulemakings, orders, and/or policy guidance; advising senior officials on complex legal and policy matters affecting public safety communications, critical infrastructure protection, and/or national security; and translating statutory and regulatory requirements into actionable policy and operational frameworks. MTQ 2 -Demonstrated ability to lead national-level initiatives related to emergency communications, disaster response coordination, and/or public safety interoperability, such as experience developing and implementing policies supporting 911/Next Generation 911 systems, emergency alerting, wireless emergency alerts, and resilient communications infrastructure; &nbsp; and collaborating with external partners, such as federal, state, tribal, and local public safety entities, to strengthen preparedness, continuity of communications, and response capabilities during national emergencies and disasters. MTQ 3 -Proven ability to lead and manage large organizations with multidisciplinary teams in a complex, regulatory environment, including setting strategic priorities, allocating resources, overseeing development of major rulemakings, enforcement actions, and/or policy initiatives; and briefing and advising senior leadership, such commissioners, congressional stakeholders, and interagency partners, on highly complex legal and policy matters. MTQ 4- Demonstrated experience coordinating with senior officials across organizations on issues affecting communications resilience and homeland security, such as working with the national security community and federal agencies like the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Justice, and Department of Defense on matters involving emergency communications, cybersecurity, infrastructure protection, and national security telecommunications policy. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).