Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The FSA Time Credit Coordinator communicates with U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, state agencies and institutions, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and various agencies of the DOJ regarding a wide range of FSA related activities.&nbsp;He/she provides national directives to institutions, Regional and Central Office staff pertaining to the management of inmates committed under the care of the Federal Prisons System. He/she provides guidance to staff internal to the agency on time credit application, eligibility, and statutory requirements that affect inmate custody determinations, prerelease placement, and supervised release eligibility. He/she must ensure guidance is communicated clearly and consistently to support uniform nationwide application. He/she participates in workgroups and meetings related to FSA time credits and risk assessment processes. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have answered routine questions from staff internal to the agency about First Step Act (FSA) eligibility requirements, application processes, and basic policy provisions; and/or I have shared feedback and observations from staff to coordinate training content development; and/or I have contributed to workgroup discussions and staff meetings by offering input related to First Step Act (FSA) operational matters; and/or I have provided instruction to others on completing tasks; and/or I have presented audit findings and recommendations to others during a department head meeting. I have explained policy provisions and application standards to staff internal to the agency to assist with the understanding and correct implementation of program requirements; and/or I have explained application of First Step Act (FSA) policies, regulations, and operational procedures to institution staff; and/or I have responded to inquiries about time credit calculations, assessment protocols, and compliance standards; and/or I have engaged in collaborative communications with agency divisions (i.e., case management, legal, information systems) regional program managers, institution staff, and external agencies, to facilitate information exchange and integrate program implementation. I have participated in workgroup meetings related to First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment processes; and/or I have engaged in verbal exchanges with agency colleagues to coordinate routine administrative matters related to First Step Act (FSA) program implementation; and/or I have reported status of assigned tasks, data collection activities or operational matters to Supervisor during staff meetings. I have led workgroups, meetings, and training development regarding First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment processes; and/or I have contributed to group discussions by presenting data analysis, sharing technical expertise, identifying operational challenges, and collaborating on solutions during workgroups and meetings; and/or I have coordinated with training specialists to support the development and delivery of instructional content related to time credits and risk assessments; and/or I have functioned as the designated expert resource for routine and complex inquiries from institutions, Regional Offices, and Central Office staff regarding First Step Act (FSA) time credit inquiries, eligibility determinations, and application standards. None of the above. 5 The FSA Time Credit Coordinator drafts correspondence and assists in drafting and updating operational guidance, procedures, and reference materials related to First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessments.&nbsp;He/she prepares reports, summaries and briefing materials for senior leadership.&nbsp;The FSA Time Credit Coordinator is responsible for developing policy for programs in correctional facilities.&nbsp;He/she must be able to communicate effectively in writing to provide support guidance to Bureau of Prisons staff nationwide. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with creating or substantially revising policy documents that interpreted statutory requirements and provided staff with clear direction on complex program applications; and/or I have prepared formal reports, summaries, and briefing materials for senior leadership that synthesized complex data analysis, identified systemic issues and trends, and presented actionable recommendations; and/or I have developed written products that supported high-level decision-making on program effectiveness and corrective actions; and/or I have assisted others in creating authoritative written directives and communications that established requirements, standards, or procedural changes for institutions, Regional Offices, and Central Office staff across the entire Bureau of Prisons. I have composed routine reports and summaries for supervisor that presented data, described program activities, or documented compliance monitoring results; and/or I have prepared written materials that conveyed information clearly for management review; and/or I have developed general correspondence including emails, memoranda, and informational bulletins that responded to inquiries, provided procedural updates, or disseminated established guidance to staff; and/or I have created written documentation of standard operating procedures, workflow processes, or step-by-step instructions that helped staff understand and follow established First Step Act (FSA) time credit application methods; and/or I have prepared informational documents, fact sheets, or Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) that explained routine First Step Act (FSA) time credit concepts, eligibility criteria, or assessment processes for staff reference. I have filled out pre-formatted documents, data collection forms, or standardized templates that captured basic information related to First Step Act (FSA) time credit activities or program operations; and/or I have recorded factual information, meeting notes, or status updates in written format; and/or I have maintained written records of routine activities or communications for administrative purposes; and/or I have prepared brief written status updates or progress reports on assigned tasks that summarized completed activities or provided basic information on routine matters; and/or I have written informational messages that relayed established information or guidance documents. I have ensured written guidance promoted uniform understanding and consistent application of First Step Act (FSA) time credit provisions; and/or I have as a member of a workgroup, written part of comprehensive reference documents, user guides, and technical materials that explained complex First Step Act (FSA) time credit eligibility determinations, risk assessment protocols, and statutory requirements; and/or I have developed written resources that served as authoritative references for field staff implementing a program; and/or I have assisted others in drafting detailed written interpretations of First Step Act (FSA) legislation, regulations, and policies in response to complex scenarios or issues; and/or I have prepared written analysis that clarified policy intent and provided staff with guidance on applying requirements to unique or challenging situations. None of the above. 6 The FSA Time Credit Coordinator directs and evaluates operating programs in institutions.&nbsp;He/she monitors institutional application of First Step Act (FSA) time credits to ensure accuracy, consistency, and compliance with statutory and policy requirements. He/she reviews assessment-related data to identify trends, inconsistencies, or operational concerns affecting time credit application.&nbsp;The FSA Time Credit Coordinator provides recommendations to improve alignment between risk assessment outcomes and time credit decisions. He/she identifies training gaps for staff and recommends targeted training solutions based on field feedback and compliance trends. He/she collects, reviews, and analyzes First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment data to support oversight, compliance monitoring, and reporting requirements.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained records of basic program implementation activities, timelines, or milestones; and/or I have documented completion of routine tasks and reported status to supervisors; and/or I have examined First Step Act (FSA) time credit information to verify accuracy and completeness; and/or I have identified obvious errors or missing information and followed established procedures for correction; and/or I have observed whether institutions were following established procedures for First Step Act (FSA) time credit application, noted discrepancies and reported them to appropriate staff according to standard protocols; and/or I have provided administrative support for program evaluation by collecting requested information, organizing materials, or preparing basic documentation that supported assessment activities. I have planned systematic approaches for introducing policy changes, establishing implementation timelines, and coordinating activities among institutions, Regional Offices, and Central Office components to ensure consistent nationwide execution; and/or I have collected, reviewed, and analyzed First Step Act (FSA) time credit and risk assessment data from multiple sources to evaluate program effectiveness, compliance rates, and operational challenges; and/or I have identified systemic trends, organizational patterns, recurring problems, or emerging risks that affected program success; and/or I have formulated actionable recommendations based on comprehensive analysis to improve alignment between risk assessment outcomes and time credit decisions. I have examined First Step Act (FSA) time credit and risk assessment data to detect patterns, discrepancies, or operational concerns at individual facilities or Regions; and/or I have assisted in developing recommendations for improving time credit processes or addressing identified problems by gathering supporting information, researching solutions, and drafting preliminary suggestions for supervisor’s review; and/or I have reviewed institutional application of First Step Act (FSA) time credits to assess accuracy and consistency with established requirements; and/or I have documented compliance issues and communicated concerns to appropriate staff for resolution; and/or I have recognized areas where staff needed additional guidance or instruction based on inquiries and operational observations. I have proposed corrective actions that considered operational, legal, and security implications across multiple facilities; and/or I have assessed staff knowledge and skill gaps through analysis of feedback, compliance trends, and operational data; and/or I have designed targeted training strategies and recommended educational interventions to address identified deficiencies and enhance program implementation capabilities nationwide; and/or I have offered expert guidance on creating, operating, monitoring, and evaluating First Step Act (FSA) program components through policy formulation, operational planning, and performance assessment; and/or I have supported high-level correctional decision-making that directly affected inmate custody determinations, prerelease placement, and supervised release eligibility across the agency. None of the above. 7 The FSA Time Credit Coordinator provides technical assistance to institutions and Regional Office staff on routine time credit and risk assessment issues.&nbsp;He/she is the primary point of contact for institutions and Regional Offices regarding time credit questions, eligibility determinations, and application standards.&nbsp;The FSA Time Credit Coordinator must have a thorough knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, and policies which affect the use of the First Step Act (FSA) program.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained established eligibility criteria and application procedures to staff; and/or I have reviewed institutional implementation of First Step Act (FSA) time credit processes to verify accuracy and consistency with established statutory and policy requirements; and/or I have assisted in monitoring inmate risk assessment processes by reviewing assessment-related data for obvious trends or inconsistencies; and/or I have reported operational concerns affecting time credit application to senior staff for evaluation; and/or I have explained the meaning and application of established First Step Act (FSA) policies, regulations, and procedures to staff in response to routine inquiries; and/or I have used general knowledge of Bureau of Prisons’ policies, correctional operations, and inmate management processes to provide context and support for First Step Act (FSA) time credit implementation. I have interpreted intricate statutory provisions, regulatory requirements, and policy guidance to provide authoritative direction on challenging eligibility determinations and application scenarios; and/or I have evaluated institutional application of First Step Act (FSA) time credits across the agency to ensure accuracy, consistency, and compliance with statutory and policy requirements; and/or I have identified compliance gaps, developed corrective action plans, and implemented strategies to achieve uniform adherence to federal correctional standards nationwide; and/or I have analyzed assessment-related data to identify trends, inconsistencies, or operational concerns, and developed recommendations to improve alignment between risk assessment outcomes and time credit decisions. I have functioned as the authoritative technical resource for institutions, Regional Offices, and Central Office staff on First Step Act (FSA) time credit questions, eligibility determinations, and application standards; and/or I have resolved complex technical issues, clarified statutory requirements, and elevated unprecedented matters requiring higher-level policy interpretation or legal review; and/or I have applied expert knowledge of federal correctional operations, inmate custody and release processes, and population management principles to support correctional decisions that directly affected inmate custody determinations, prerelease placement, and supervised release eligibility with significant institutional and public safety implications. I have examined First Step Act (FSA) time credit and risk assessment documentation to verify that required information was present and followed established formats; and/or I have identified missing or incomplete information according to standard checklists; and/or I have supported compliance activities by reviewing basic First Step Act (FSA) time credit applications against established criteria. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).