Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 5 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have one full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7. I meet the superior academic achievement provision described in the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Choose the one answer that describes your education or experience as it pertains to the Individual Occupational Requirements to qualify for the GS-1010 series for an Exhibits Specialist. Answer to this question is required Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. Advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above is creditable as general experience on a month-for-month basis. Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience in the actual type of work for which application is made. Unpaid experience is creditable, provided the work done was of a quality level and demonstrated the ability required for the position. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Forklifts 20-ft one man lift 40-ft. articulating lift 80-ft. articulating lift Mite lifts 27-ft scissor lift 40-ft. scissor lift 60-ft articulating lift Other material handling equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 4 Which of the following types of machinery do you have experience operating? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Electric-powered machinery Gasoline-powered machinery Propane-powered machinery Diesel-powered machinery None of the above 5 Do you have a current driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in maintaining supplies associated with vehicle operation and safety in orderly fashion? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience and skills with exhibit care and cleaning such as washing walls and trim, cleaning exhibition spaces such as open platforms and enclosed cases, and creating and maintaining logs of exhibit and object care activities in a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of cleaning exhibition elements and spaces, cleaning around objects, or maintaining logs of care activities. I have education or training but no experience in cleaning exhibition spaces and cleaning around objects, nor maintaining logs of care activities. I have basic knowledge of cleaning exhibition spaces and cleaning around objects; I have some experience of log keeping in a non-museum setting. I perform exhibit care activities daily. I clean around objects on platforms, open and close exhibit cases to clean them, and maintain logs of all exhibit care I perform. 8 Which of the following tasks have you regularly performed with exhibition lighting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have removed, troubleshot, and repaired defective lighting fixtures. I have cleaned and refocused lighting fixtures. I have tested and replaced defective lamps in lighting fixtures. I have installed spread lenses, egg crate louvers, and other controlling elements on lighting fixtures to achieve the desired effects. I have installed lighting fixtures. I have done none of the above. 9 Do you have experience with the care and cleaning of exhibits, aircraft, spacecraft, rockets, and high-bay areas such as windowsills, trusses, beams, and light fixtures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following best describes your skill level and experience handling and cleaning museum objects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with museum objects I have some experience working and cleaning around museum objects, but not cleaning or handling the objects I have some experience cleaning around and handling museum objects, but not cleaning the objects I have cleaned around museum objects and cleaned the objects on the platforms, and have handled objects to make acrylic mounts and to install and de-install them in exhibits. 11 Do you have experience dismantling exhibits including assisting with the removal of artifacts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you have experience assisting with the installation of exhibit components? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following types of experience do you have with museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cleaning. Moving. Housing. Storing. I have no experience working with museum objects. 14 Which of the following handling activities do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects for exhibit installation. I have crated or uncrated museum objects for transport, exhibit installation, and/or removal or storage. I have designed handling museum apparatuses for objects. I have designed museum storage apparatuses for objects. I have handled large museum objects. I have used industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects. I have no experience handling museum objects. 15 This position requires physical exertion such as frequent climbing of tall ladders, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, or lifting heavy objects over 23 kilograms (50 pounds). This is typical of jobs involving hands-on efforts in the reconstruction and installation of large scale museum artifacts. Are you able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.