Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your specialized experience for the Attorney-Advisor, GS-0905-13 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least two years of relevant specialized and professional legal experience as an attorney. The specialized experience includes developing legal opinions, briefs, pleadings, or other analysis of legal issues related to transportation laws; government-wide laws and regulations related to information law, contracts, grants, appropriations, Government employee integrity, or similar fields; or regulatory or enforcement actions. The experience must also include handling of routine requests for legal support from stakeholders on assigned projects and updating supervisors at appropriate times. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above. 2 Select the option that best describes your level of education. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a law degree (J.D. or L.L.B). I do not possess the education as described above. 3 Are you currently an active member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your specialized experience for the Attorney-Advisor, GS-0905-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least five years of relevant specialized and professional legal experience as an attorney. The specialized experience includes providing expert legal advisory services both orally and written. Providing expert legal advice to senior executives and others related to Federal transportation safety, grant program laws, information law, and/or the Inspector General Act with minimal input on drafts of work from supervisors. Identifying areas of improvement for agency operations, policies, or procedures and making recommendations/participating in implementation of solutions to such areas. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above. 2 Select the option that best describes your level of education. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a law degree (J.D. or L.L.B). I do not possess the education as described above. 3 Are you currently an active member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).