Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. NOTE:&nbsp; ALL &nbsp;applicants&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathmematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing. OR A combination of education and experience--courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must have demonstrable prior experience developing and applying advanced statistical models; OR Applicant must have demonstrable prior experience managing and maintaining servers and complex databases. All applicants MUST clearly address the Selective Factor in their resume and/or upload all licenses/certifications at the time you apply. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Statistician (Social Science) plans and conducts descriptive and complex multivariate data analysis on specific subjects related to crime and the administration of justice.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and assessed sample errors, coefficient of variance, confidence intervals, and tests of significance; and/or I have worked with limitations of statistical methods (i.e., the methods used in data reduction, processing, and analysis); and/or I have participated in conducting research in an applied setting. I have generated tables and graphs with appropriate descriptive statistics and statistical tests pertaining to Bureau of Prisons or other criminal justice components; and/or I have aided in the development of an automated data collection protocol; and/or I have cleaned, edited, documented, and maintained data file(s) generated; and/or I have helped update and manage code books and other descriptive texts; and/or I have assisted in managing a data file storage system utilized by all staff for statistical reporting and research purposes. I have computed and used statistical and analytic techniques; and/or I have reported data analysis findings; and/or I have monitored data quality; and/or I have managed data of large case management files. None of the above. 5 The Statistician (Social Science) compiles research data into reports, translating the material in such a way that it can be understood by end users.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure(s); and/or I have assisted senior research staff in preparing budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. I have answered technical correspondences involving research databases; and/or I have drafted memoranda and letters on routine research-related requests; and/or I have worked with colleagues on compiling data and tables. I have used general guidelines or established formats to create non-technical documents; and/or I have summarized research proposals or reports; and/or I have prepared research responses to requests for information. None of the above. 6 The Statistician (Social Science) uses extensive professional knowledge of survey methodology including sample design and selection, questionnaire design and wording, appropriateness of various types of questionnaires, samples, and data collection methodologies for various situations, coding and editing plans and procedures, interview training procedures and data presentation techniques.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized social survey methodology; and/or I have completed graduate level course work in survey research methods; and/or I have assisted professors or more senior research personnel in preparing presentations or reports with survey research data. I have performed major activities involving sample design and selection, data collection/extraction methodologies for various situations, or data presentation techniques (i.e., Structured Query Language (SQL) and Statistical Analysis System (SAS); and/or I have assisted with using advanced statistical methodology in developing research projects; and/or I have conducted projects involving datasets (i.e., National Finance Center research archives); and/or I have worked with Department of Justice mainframe node. I have used advanced statistical methodology in developing research projects with assistance; and/or I have conducted survey or data collection projects; and/or I have presented and explained data collection projects to professors. None of the above. 7 The Statistician (Social Science) communicates with various agencies, organizations, and Bureau and Research staff on technical information.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted telephone information exchange during an execution of a research project; and/or I have provided assistance on an oral presentation or at a conference (i.e., Statistical Analysis System (SAS) graphics, Enterprise Guide); and/or I have answered questions concerning offender data analysis or staff data; and/or I have provided directions to a research assistant on the details of a research project and the method of a study. I have attended and participated in meetings which required group discussions about research; and/or I have answered staff questions regarding Statistical Analysis System (SAS); and/or I have conversed with co-worker regarding the design of a research study. I have communicated various programing data and analytical steps in preparing data to senior research staff; and/or I have assisted with presenting descriptive reports; and/or I have assisted in communicating to others research studies and products for use by agency. None of the above. 8 The Statistician (Social Science) must have specialized knowledge of software capabilities and capacities to conduct the processing and analysis of Bureau of Prisons data.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with software commonly used in Management Analysis Portal (MAP); and/or I have assisted in projects when software application was needed; and/or I have assisted with software used in data presentation; and/or I have assisted in manipulating data in a professional data warehouse (i.e., Management Analysis Portal (MAP) setting. I have prepared tables and graphs for information requests; and/or I have maintained research data files; and/or I have conducted data analysis in preparing research reports. I have used Statistical Analysis System (SAS) to maintain Management Analysis Portal (MAP)); and/or I have used software for data presentation which included tables and graphics; and/or I have manipulated data in a professional data warehouse (i.e., Management Analysis Portal (MAP)) setting; and/or I have analyzed software application. None of the above. 9 The Statistician (Social Science) oversees the technical aspects of statistical work performed by junior analysts and statistical clerks, resolves many operational and technical problems and conflicts which arise during implementation phases, and oversees completion of work. He/she is responsible for efficiently applying limited staff and financial resources to project goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate, and initiate the flow of required information to administer databases or accomplish statistical analysis; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of analytic or data products; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have ensured available departmental resources were applied to analytic or database projects; and/or I have ensured specific policy requirements for database administration or for reporting were implemented appropriately; and/or I have managed the annual monitoring of accountable property within the department; and/or I have developed quality assurance procedures within analytic products, or within database or server environments. I have conducted analytic or database projects with little oversight; and/or I have executed server updates and determined follow-up with supervisory staff; and/or I have monitored compliance with specific policy or security requirements for database administration or for analytical reporting; and/or I have executed the annual monitoring of accountable property within the department; and/or I have co-authored analytical reports; and/or I have monitored or executed quality assurance procedures within databases or server environments. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathmematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing. OR A combination of education and experience--courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must have demonstrable prior experience developing and applying advanced statistical models; OR Applicant must have demonstrable prior experience managing and maintaining servers and complex databases. All applicants MUST clearly address the Selective Factor in their resume and/or upload all licenses/certifications at the time you apply. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Statistician (Social Science) plans and conducts descriptive and complex multivariate data analysis on specific subjects related to crime and the administration of justice.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and assessed sample errors, coefficient of variance, confidence intervals, and tests of significance; and/or I have worked with limitations of statistical methods (i.e., the methods used in data reduction, processing, and analysis); and/or I have participated in conducting research in an applied setting. I have used statistical computing in graduate-level course work and performed statistical computing/data management, interpretation of range of statistical test or analytic techniques in a government research study; and/or I have used confidence intervals and tests of significance, multivariate linear and non-linear regressions in comprehensive criminal datasets; and/or I have conducted independent analysis and prepared written interpretation or graphs of the analysis; and/or I have authored internal reports or professional publication with findings of statistical data; and/or I have created a new personal computer or Web application for use in data collection/validation. I have computed and used statistical and analytic techniques; and/or I have reported data analysis findings; and/or I have monitored data quality; and/or I have managed data of large case management files. None of the above. 5 The Statistician (Social Science) compiles research data into reports, translating the material in such a way that it can be understood by end users.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided managers with written reports which include detailed technical analysis; and/or I have assisted in writing a paper for publication or presentation in the area of data warehouse data management, at the aggregate level; and/or I have authored technical documentation for complex applications. I have answered technical correspondences involving research databases; and/or I have drafted memoranda and letters on routine research-related requests; and/or I have worked with colleagues on compiling data and tables. I have used general guidelines or established formats to create non-technical documents; and/or I have summarized research proposals or reports; and/or I have prepared research responses to requests for information. None of the above. 6 The Statistician (Social Science) uses extensive professional knowledge of survey methodology including sample design and selection, questionnaire design and wording, appropriateness of various types of questionnaires, samples, and data collection methodologies for various situations, coding and editing plans and procedures, interview training procedures and data presentation techniques.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed major activities involving sample design and selection, data collection/extraction methodologies for various situations, or data presentation techniques (i.e., Structured Query Language (SQL) and Statistical Analysis System (SAS); and/or I have assisted with using advanced statistical methodology in developing research projects; and/or I have conducted projects involving datasets (i.e., National Finance Center research archives); and/or I have worked with Department of Justice mainframe node. I have used advanced statistical methodology in developing research projects with assistance; and/or I have conducted survey or data collection projects; and/or I have presented and explained data collection projects to professors. I have conducted sample design and advanced regression methodologies for various situations and data presentation techniques, using Statistical Analysis System (SAS), Tableau, or Power Business Intelligence (BI); and/or I have used advanced statistical methodology in developing research projects independently; and/or I have conducted multiple major projects involving large datasets (i.e., Prison Social Climate Survey or case management file extracts); and/or I have produced graphics for Executive meetings; and/or I have analyzed the results of a survey using Statistical Analysis System (SAS). None of the above. 7 The Statistician (Social Science) communicates with various agencies, organizations, and Bureau and Research staff on technical information.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to requests for information with detailed explanation of a complex research statistical software; and/or I have provided information to other Department of Justice components, correctional programs or Bureau of Prisons managers regarding operations and knowledge of Bureau of Prisons data structures; and/or I have made oral presentations regarding research findings to large audiences or small top management groups; and/or I have coordinated projects which included being a representative at a variety of meetings outside the agency. I have conducted telephone information exchange during an execution of a research project; and/or I have provided assistance on an oral presentation or at a conference (i.e., Statistical Analysis System (SAS) graphics, Enterprise Guide); and/or I have answered questions concerning offender data analysis or staff data; and/or I have provided directions to a research assistant on the details of a research project and the method of a study. I have attended and participated in meetings which required group discussions about research; and/or I have answered staff questions regarding Statistical Analysis System (SAS); and/or I have conversed with co-worker regarding the design of a research study. None of the above. 8 The Statistician (Social Science) must have specialized knowledge of software capabilities and capacities to conduct the processing and analysis of Bureau of Prisons data.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used Statistical Analysis System (SAS) to maintain Management Analysis Portal (MAP)); and/or I have used software for data presentation which included tables and graphics; and/or I have manipulated data in a professional data warehouse (i.e., Management Analysis Portal (MAP)) setting; and/or I have analyzed software application. I have worked with software commonly used in Management Analysis Portal (MAP); and/or I have assisted in projects when software application was needed; and/or I have assisted with software used in data presentation; and/or I have assisted in manipulating data in a professional data warehouse (i.e., Management Analysis Portal (MAP) setting. I have applied a statistical package for data analysis contributing to a Ph.D. Dissertation, book, journal article, government publication, or other related work experience; and/or I have used Stata, Python, R or Statistical Analysis System (SAS) in manipulating case management files and National Finance Center data in a data warehouse (i.e., Management Analysis Portal (MAP)) setting; and/or I have involved in a user group to keep updated on advanced software packages; and/or I have analyzed and determined best software application for particular project; and/or I have created a personal computer or Web based applications for data display and exploration. None of the above. 9 The Statistician (Social Science) oversees the technical aspects of statistical work performed by junior analysts and statistical clerks, resolves many operational and technical problems and conflicts which arise during implementation phases, and oversees completion of work. He/she is responsible for efficiently applying limited staff and financial resources to project goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have authored reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed and managed the implementation of action plans; and/or I have responded to organization or departmental research on technical questions; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities or policies utilizing analytic products; and/or I have coordinated and oversaw due dates for unit projects and tracked assignments for completion. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate, and initiate the flow of required information to administer databases or accomplish statistical analysis; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of analytic or data products; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have ensured available departmental resources were applied to analytic or database projects; and/or I have ensured specific policy requirements for database administration or for reporting were implemented appropriately; and/or I have managed the annual monitoring of accountable property within the department; and/or I have developed quality assurance procedures within analytic products, or within database or server environments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).