Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Do you have proficiency in reading Italian, German and/or French to perform research, writing and other duties associated with collection research and cataloguing, as well as exhibitions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following describes your work in museum registration or collections management in applying collections information systems for managing museum registration and collections management functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used collections information systems to research and identify collection items. I have electronically cataloged collection items. I have prepared condition reports. I have researched and resolved documentation problems and reported issues and their state of resolution to senior management. I have planned or organized the bar coding or automated tracking of a museum collection. I have taken documentary photos of museum items. I have undertaken annual inventories of museum collections. I have not used a collections information system. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with a museum or gallery collections management system devoted to fragile museum objects (i.e., works on paper?. Answer to this question is required I have performed collections management work that included. acquisitions/accessions; cataloging/inventories and object records and loans for a collection devoted to work on paper. I have performed collections management work that included. acquisitions/accessions; cataloging/inventories and object records and loans for a collection devoted to art. No experience with works on paper. I have completed 4 years of academic studies in studio art, art history, humanities, or museum studies that included studies or a specialization in collections management. I do not have experience with fragile museum objects (i.e., works on paper); however I am eager to learn. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience participating in research and interpretation of a museum or similar collection, label writing, and answering in-house and public inquiries? Answer to this question is required I have experience participating in the research and interpretation of a museum collection of works on paper including label writing and answering internal and external questions. I have experience answering questions internal and external regarding a museum collection (not devoted to works on paper). I have completed 4 years of academic studies in art or design history museum studies that included studies or a specialization in collections management where I was responsible for communicating in writing. I have no experience participating in these duties; however I am eager to learn. 6 Which of the following statement best describe your experience communicating in writing regarding a wide range of correspondence and documents relating to department projects, exhibitions and collections? Answer to this question is required I have experience independently drafting emails, memorandums, notes and other correspondence documenting department projects, exhibitions and collections. I have experience assisting others in drafting emails and other correspondence. I have completed 4 years of academic studies in art or design history museum studies that included studies or a specialization in collections management where I was responsible for communicating in writing. I have no experience using a museum library or reference materials. 7 Which of the following statement best describe your experience handling a museum collection with fragile objects such as works on paper? Answer to this question is required I have been entrusted with independently handling a museum collection devoted to fragile objects such as works on paper for a wide range of researchers including scholars, curators, students and other professionals. I have assisted other museum/gallery professionals with handling a museum collection devoted to works on paper. I have handled art work (not works on paper) for museum collection. I have no experience at all with art handling or exposure to museum objects. I have an interest in learning. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience handling art where you were entrusted with the scheduling or meeting schedules for packing, transit and relocating of art objects? Answer to this question is required I have experience scheduling or meeting schedules for packing, transit and relocation of art objects in a museum, gallery, studio, etc., that included works on paper, textiles and 3D objects. I have experience packing under the direction of a supervisor, art objects in a museum, gallery, studio, etc. that included works on paper, textiles and 3D objects. I have no direct experience handling and/or packing art objects. I have completed 4 years of academic studies in studio art, art history, humanities, or museum studies where I also studied and learned knowledge of chemistry in understanding potential chemical interactions between objects and packing or storage materials. I have no experience with art handling or exposure to museum objects. I have an interest in learning. 9 Which of the following best describe your experience with museum acquisitions and deaccessions? Answer to this question is required I have researched background information and drafted written justifications for the acquisition or deaccession of artworks for supervisory review. I have coordinated logistics related to museum acquisitions with other museum offices, donors, and sellers. I have developed and maintained a budget spreadsheet to track acquisitions expenditures for 1-3 acquisitions funds. I have developed checklists of artworks being considered for acquisition and deaccession. I have consulted with donors, art dealers, and specialists about the sale of works deaccessioned from a museum collection and their valuations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.