Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience cleaning large facilities without close supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of experience cleaning building spaces. Answer to this question is required I have little experience in cleaning buildings and spaces. I have cleaned building spaces with a supervisor present to guide and monitor my work. I have independently cleaned building spaces. None of the above 3 Do you have experience performing cleaning, delivery, or trash removal tasks according to a schedule? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set Up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with construction projects Removed ice and snow from building steps and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivery of collection containers Sort a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, bottles, or cans None of the above 5 Which following areas have you cleaned? Answer to this question is required Offices Committee Rooms Restrooms Building lobbies Police kiosks Cafeteria Elevators Stair wells None of the above 6 Which types of material have you moved in response to requests? Answer to this question is required Packed boxes File cabinets Pallets Cleaning equipment Recycling carts Construction debris Trash Containers None of the above 7 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 8 How have you used instructions in your work? Answer to this question is required To understand how to perform my job To explain how to perform tasks To learn new processes To maintain my safety None of the above 9 What type of equipment do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Forklift Pallet jacks Trash compactor None of the above 10 Have you cleaned tools or equipment under the direction of a senior employee or supervisor? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.