Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which licenses do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Journeyman- plumbing Journeyman- pipefitting Journeyman- electrical systems Journeyman- HVAC-R Stationary Engineer license None of the above 2 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of responsibility maintaining building systems. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R maintenance under direct supervision from others. I have maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing plumbing, pipefitting, electrical, and HVAC-R work. None of the above. 3 Which building systems have you independently maintained? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems – steam Piping systems – chilled water Piping system – gas Piping systems – pneumatic Piping systems – heating hot water Piping systems – fire suppression systems Electrical systems HVAC systems - fans HVAC systems - controls HVAC systems – variable frequency drives None of the above 4 Do you have experience performing HVAC-R duties with minimal supervision? Such experience includes the installation, repair, and troubleshooting of commercial and industrial systems that provide air conditioning such as heating, cooling, humidifying, de-humidifying, cleaning, filtering, and circulating air. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience operating and maintaining utility systems. Answer to this question is required I independently perform corrective and preventative maintenance on boilers, chillers, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, compressors, and emergency power equipment. I operate the computer system to observe equipment readings and systems parameters. I am able to recognize abnormal conditions and situations from computer output, alarms, and printouts and proceed to restore the systems to a safe condition. I conduct inspection tours to check the operating conditions of mechanical and electrical equipment and gauges. I assist higher graded employees in performing work involved in operating and maintaining boilers, chillers, and auxiliaries. My experience is not reflected in the statements shown above. 6 Have you maintained mechanical systems in buildings larger than 500,000 square feet? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Choose the building systems for which you have performed routine or repetitive maintenance tasks? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems (HVAC, pneumatic) Electrical systems HVAC systems None of the above 8 Have you developed maintenance plans for plumbing, pipefitting, electrical, or HVAC-R systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which instruments or gauges have you used to determine whether building system values were within an acceptable range? Answer to this question is required Pressure gauges Manometers Refrigerator gauges Sling Psychrometer Humidity meters Alignment tools Multimeters Ultrasonic detectors Thermal imaging devices Infrared thermometers Magnehelic gauges TK-9 Backflow prevention test kit Pneumatic thermostats Continuity testers Capicitators None of the above 10 Which equipment have you operated to maintain building HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required Vacuum pump Refrigeration gauges Belt tensioning tool Water jetter Recovery machine None of the above 11 Which pipefitting and/or plumbing tasks have you performed? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Cutting pipe Threading pipe Selecting the correct pipe size Soldering pipe joints or hubs Installing plumbing fixtures Installing/replacing valves Troubleshooting automatic flush toilet valves Clearing drain traps Maintain water tanks None of the above 12 Which activities have you performed related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I have interpreted DDC system readings. I have changed temperatures using a DDC system. I have programmed a DDC system. I have replaced DDC control devices. I have calibrated DDC measurement devices such as temperature and humidity sensors. None of the above. 13 Which tasks have you performed to maintain electric automation systems? Answer to this question is required Repaired variable frequency drives Replaced electric motors Wired a 3-phase motor Replaced the shiv on a motor Installed and programmed Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) Replaced current transducers None of the above 14 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, technical manuals, sketches, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete requiring extensive knowledge of mechanical trades terminology and symbols specifically in the areas of HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, or electricity. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical mechanical trades experience in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, or electrical work. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, or electrical trades. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of mechanical systems and equipment, including HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, or electrical. Followed drawings, technical manuals, and other references in making repairs and installation of mechanical systems (HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, or electrical) under normal supervision. None of the above. 15 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of experience interpreting technical instructions or specifications. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting technical instructions. I followed technical instructions to maintain or clean equipment. I followed technical instructions to assemble or troubleshoot equipment. I followed technical instructions to install a light fixture, faucet or thermostat. I followed technical instructions to wire a circuit or replace plumbing lines. 16 Which mechanical reference materials have you independently read and used to troubleshoot/repair building systems? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 17 On which of the following electronic systems have you installed, operated and performed troubleshooting? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Sophisticated electrical circuits / equipment Standard electronics Environmental control systems Motor controls Greenhouse lighting systems Electrical distribution panels Secondary power distribution lines and circuits None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.