Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of communication principles, methods and techniques.** Demonstrated knowledge of communication principles through the performance of: 1) coordinating interviews, 2) developing editorial plans and activities, 3) developing communication plans, 4) directing the development of written and multimedia materials, and 5) developing and/or coordinating online digital media communications such as social media, and websites. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above while working in a communications role. Performed FOUR (4) of the above while working in a communications role. Performed THREE (3) of the above while working in a communications role. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote a variety of clear, factual, analytical and understandable documents related to the position such as: 1) news articles, 2) feature articles, 3) news releases, 4) social media posts and 5) reports. Answer to this question is required As the principal author, routinely wrote ALL of the above documents. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents As the principal author, routinely wrote THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above documents, including 1) and 2). Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. As the principal author, routinely wrote items 1) and 2). Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to produce written products.** Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals on writing, editing, and information management in a professional work environment. Answer to this question is required Initiated, developed and maintained professional collaborative relationships to accomplish objectives. Worked collaboratively with high-level executives, managers, staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish objectives. Initiated, developed and/or maintained professional collaborative relationships to accomplish objectives. Worked collaboratively with managers, staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish objectives. Developed and maintained professional collaborative relationships to accomplish objectives. Worked with managers, staff, contractors, volunteers and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish objectives. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of the principles and techniques of editing. Applied editing principles and techniques to improve the accuracy and clarity of written materials. Answer to this question is required As primary job responsibility, served as an authority on applying standard editorial principles and techniques and style guides to review written materials for clarity of expression, accuracy, timeliness, and completeness. Worked with writers to improve accuracy, clarity and readability of written materials. Made changes to improve consistency of capitalization, spelling, hyphenation, subject-verb agreement and other matters of syntax, punctuation and style. Have rewritten and reorganized written materials and suggested ways of presenting material to avoid problems of oversight, bias, lack of balance, inappropriate tone or lack of clarity. As a primary job responsibility, worked with writers to improve accuracy, clarity and readability of written materials. Made changes to improve consistency of capitalization, spelling, hyphenation, subject-verb agreement and other matters of syntax, punctuation and style. Have rewritten and reorganized written materials and suggested ways of presenting material to avoid problems of oversight, bias, lack of balance, inappropriate tone or lack of clarity. As a primary job responsibility, proofread the written work of others to improve consistency of capitalization, spelling, hyphenation, subject-verb agreement and other matters of syntax, punctuation and style. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Utilize Computer Technology/Software Applications. Utilized computer technology and software applications to produce a variety of documents, reports, training materials, and webpages promoting public affairs for an organization. Answer to this question is required Produced comprehensive communications materials to promote an organization, including press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, training materials, social media feature articles, and other materials utilizing advanced computer technology and software applications. Provided advice and instruction to others on the use of state-of-the-art technology and software applications applicable to the development of communications materials. Produced comprehensive communications materials to promote an organization, including press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, training materials, social media feature articles, and other materials utilizing advanced computer technology and software applications. Produced a variety of communications materials to promote an organization such as press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, training materials, social media feature articles, and other materials utilizing advanced computer technology and software applications. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).