Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet at least one of the following requirements: Completion of Doctorate of Physician Assistant Studies, Doctorate of Science Physician Assistant (DScPA) or equivalent. OR Completion of a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree in a related health field and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related doctoral degree programs include, but are not limited to, public health; allied health field; public health education; or other related health science programs. OR Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. 2 Do you meet any of the additional educational and/or experience requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in A. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in B. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the experience and educational requirement described in C. Applicants must UPLOAD proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 5.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5.1 The Physician Assistant recognizes adverse signs and symptoms, makes the appropriate assessment, and reacts swiftly in providing treatment in emergency situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently treated injured individuals with life threatening emergencies such as cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, stroke, shock, or head trauma; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in an emergency room; and/or I have directed a medical response team in an emergency situation; and/or I have performed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) or advanced trauma life support (ATLS) on individuals; and/or I have effectively utilized differential diagnosis process to solve problems. I have treated patients as a Physician Assistant in an urgent care clinic setting; and/or I have assisted physician or medical team in treating life threatening emergencies; and/or I have treated patients with complicated injuries, such as compound fractures, deep lacerations, or blunt trauma; and/or I have assessed neurological deficits. I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a physician’s office setting; and/or I have treated patients with minor injuries such as fractures, simple lacerations, strains, sprains that require splinting; and/or I have performed suturing of an open wound or laceration; and/or I have performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until an emergency team arrived. None of the above. 5.2 The Physician Assistant must evaluate the health care needs of inmate patients (both acute and chronic) and make a diagnosis and prescribe the appropriate treatment and medications (under the supervision of a physician).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted with diagnostic studies, such as angiograms, upper Gastrointestinal (GI), and colonoscopies; and/or I have made interventions or referrals based upon clinical findings; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon lab results. I have provided long term care to patients in nursing homes, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals/Clinics, or homes for the developmentally disabled; and/or I have conducted sick call with minimal supervision; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a clinical/primary care environment. I have independently diagnosed and managed patients with multiple, complex, chronic and acute health problems, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cancer, liver failure, asthma, hypertension or diabetes; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a prison or mental health environment; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a satellite clinic in the absence of the physician. None of the above. 5.3 The Physician Assistant must appropriately assess the inmate patient&rsquo;s overall medical history and illness in order to accurately prescribe medication, including the appropriate dosage.&nbsp; His/her assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prescribed medication using a fixed formulary; and/or I have utilized evidence based medicine to manage patients with hypertension, diabetes, and other chronic illnesses with age, sex, or race specific treatment modalities; and/or I have conducted in-service programs for colleagues regarding trends in medication therapy; and/or I have successfully completed Continuing Medical Education (CME) training in any area of pharmacology. I have independently prescribed and adjusted prescription dosage (i.e., insulin and diabetic medications) to stabilize patient; and/or I have managed patients on multiple medications; and/or I have managed patients with complex conditions; and/or I have prescribed specialized drugs, such as psychotropics, anti-coagulants (blood thinners) and thyroid medication; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon monitoring of side effects of medication; and/or I have recommended lab studies, and follow-up examinations. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medications for chronic disease management; and/or I have prescribed antibiotics for infectious disease processes; and/or I have ordered lab work to monitor side effects of specific drugs according to pharmaceutical recommendations; and/or I have conducted patient education classes regarding disease management and medication therapy. None of the above. 5.4 The Physician Assistant must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results to make diagnostic impressions based on those test results and prescribe the appropriate treatment. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered x-rays and splinted or casted extremity; and/or I have, based upon a neurological examination, ordered a computed tomography (CT)scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)scan; and/or I have evaluated the results of pulmonary function tests to determine medication therapy; and/or I have ordered a follow-up lipid profile to evaluate the effectiveness of medication therapy. I have conducted specialized tests, such as a colposcopy, sigmoidoscopy or exercise treadmill test (stress tests); and/or I have interpreted and responded appropriately to specialized laboratory studies addressing areas such as HIV, anemia work-ups, cardiac enzymes, arterial blood gas (ABG), liver disease and other immune system-related problems; and/or I have interpreted tests results for patients with complex health problems/multiple disorders; and/or I have followed-up and ordered supplemental tests after identifying abnormalities; and/or I have performed incisional biopsy from skin for testing. I have ordered diagnostic studies to evaluate renal function and ordered a nephrology consult; and/or I have ordered nerve conduction studies to document evidence of a neurological deficit; and/or I have ordered appropriate antibiotics based upon culture and sensitivity reports; and/or I have discontinued medication therapy for tuberculosis (TB) based upon abnormal liver profile; and/or I have ordered appropriate tests and consults to assist with differential diagnosis for a severe headache. None of the above. 5.5 The Physician Assistant must relate and deal effectively with inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures regarding health care issues/concerns. By providing guidance and counseling, he/she may positively impact inmate behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal health care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis intervention to patients with suicidal ideation; and/or I have utilized an interpreter to validate patients understanding of disease process and treatment plan; and/or I have counseled noncompliant patients to improve patient outcomes and acceptance of treatment plan; and/or I have interviewed patients to evaluate risky behavior; and/or I have validated the patients understanding of medication and side effects. I have conducted group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided patient education; and/or I have provided therapeutic intervention to patient in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed the rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance. I have diffused a crisis involving angry, violent, and/or manipulative patients; and/or I have led a support/self-help patient group; and/or I have treated patients with medical/psychiatric health problems from complex/multi-cultural backgrounds. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).