Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-13 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed all mandatory training prescribed for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least four (4) years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least one (1) year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to the work at the next lower level (GS-12), and that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the work of the position. AND I have successfully completed of a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have successfully completed all mandatory training prescribed for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least four (4) years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least one (1) year of that experience was specialized experience at or equivalent to the work at the next lower level (GS-12), and that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the work of the position. AND I met the standards for the GS-1102 position that I held on January 1, 2000. I do not meet the qualification requirements stated above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal government service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position includes: (1) Broad knowledge of contracting policies, procedures, laws and regulations; (2) Performing pre-award and post-award functions; (3) Preparing solicitation documents, analyzing proposals, negotiating with potential contractors; (4) Performing cost and/or price analysis; and (5) Administering contracts, preparing positions on protests, and closing out contracts. 3 &nbsp;Do you have Supplies, Services, Design and/or Construction Contract experience?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have a current FAC-C Professional certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar service and supply contracts?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list the complex multi-million dollar service and supply contracts: title, project amount, and what role you had in solicitation, award, and administration. Please make sure this experience is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do you currently hold, or have you held, a Contracting Officer's warrant? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list the organization at which you worked, the title you held, and the amount of the warrant when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience advising senior management officials on contract and procurement initiatives, strategies, and resolutions for highly complex, sensitive, and controversial problems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job with technical guidance from a supervisor or senior employee, but my exposure is limited. I have routinely performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained and provided technical guidance and direction to others so they can perform this task/competency. I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 9 I am responsible for all phases of contract administration including modifications, renegotiation of cost or specifications, claims, settlement of disputes, determinations of compliance, and final closeout. Answer to this question is required True 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 10 Which contract acquisition duties have you frequently performed? Answer to this question is required I have performed acquisition planning activities. I have conducted events that are exchanges with industry outreach activities. I have accessed and approved subcontracting plans and reports. I have performed price/cost analysis of proposals. I have performed contractor responsibility determinations. I have ensured government adherence to contractor oversight/quality assurance activities. I have not performed any of the above duties. 11 Which tasks did you perform to determine the necessity, fairness, and reasonableness of proposed contract costs? Answer to this question is required Devised multiple incentives that required the use of sophisticated contracting techniques. Shared cost risk arrangements, such as cost-plus-incentive-fee or fixed-price-incentive-fee. Prepared economic price adjustment clauses that identified the basis for adjusting labor or material costs where pricing could not be reasonably predicted at the time of contract negotiation. Gathered and evaluated price and/or cost data for pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Performed basic analyses for firm fixed-price contracts. None of the above. 12 Select the tasks that you routinely performed and for which you have provided assistance and/or training. Answer to this question is required Interpreted and applied program policies, procedures, and regulations. Developed special clauses, terms, and/or conditions applicable to a solicitation. Terminated contracts for default or convenience and negotiated settlements. Assessed program needs, identified risks, solved problems, defended, negotiated, or settled matters involving significant controversial issues. None of the above. 13 Select the response that best represents your highest level of experience with negotiating contracts. Answer to this question is required Led negotiations which involved planning and developing negotiation strategies, coordinating strategies with a negotiating team, and conducting the negotiations. Served as a negotiator which involved developing negotiation strategies and coordinating strategies with a negotiation team. Served as a member on a negotiation team to develop negotiation strategies. None of the above. 14 Select the following groups of individuals with whom you have maintained contacts. Answer to this question is required Executives Supervisors and Managers Internal customers (i.e., co-workers or others within your organization) Congressional staff State and local government representatives Industry representatives Contractors General public Other Federal agency representatives None of the above 15 What written materials have you prepared, reviewed, and revised relating to contract and procurement activities? Answer to this question is required Acquisition plans Market research Sources sought notices Source selection plans Justifications and Approvals Solicitations Inter-agency agreements Determinations and findings Reports None of the above 16 I have advised senior executives, customers, and managers, as a central or major part of my job, on the policies, procedures, and practices of contracts related to planning, market research, soliciting, awarding, and administration.&nbsp; I have performed this function independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. Answer to this question is required True False 17 Choose the statements that describe oral/briefing skills you used to convey information on acquisition programs. Answer to this question is required I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations on acquisition issues. I have briefed managers/executives on technical acquisition information both within the Agency and outside the Agency. I have provided briefings and defended controversial acquisition issues to a variety of audiences. I have responded to congressional inquiries. None of the above. 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.