Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you available to work shift work, weekends, night shift, and overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the best answer that best reflects your experience and expertise in performing the following duties.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I store materials and supplies as directed. I have good knowledge of event set up and take down. I have performed high dusting in various areas of columns, windows, and other tall interior structures. I have worked from scaffolds, ladders, and lifts. I have experience in the application of waxes and other floor materials. I have vacuumed and cleaned wool carpet. I have moved heavy/large furniture in and out of an office and gallery. I have not performed any of the above. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of custodial and laborer areas? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Do you have experience applying Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, standards and practices to workplace assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Indicate those actions you have performed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Checked equipment for safety purposes, before using Donned personal protective equipment (PPE), issued by an employer Blocked off hazardous work areas to prevent accidents among passers-by Completed manual labor adjacent to objects or structures of exceptionally high monetary value None of the above actions 6 Can you walk, stoop down, and climb steps and ladders, when required, for a long period of time during the work day? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience sweeping and wet mopping floors?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience removing oil, hydraulic fluid, grease, and other spilled liquids?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have provided customer service to visitors and staff members as part of my current/past job responsibilities. I was required to have dialog with all staff and visitors. I am able to respond to general questions to help staff and visitors. I am able to give simple directions regarding information which I may be called on to supply by staff and visitors. I do not have experience in customer service. 10 Can you work, on a regular basis, in temperatures above 90 degrees F and below 32 degrees F? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.