Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 With which of the following types of media technologies do you have education or experience? Answer to this question is required Intranet Internet Web Chats Video conferencing Blogs Really Simple Syndication (RSS) Listservs Streaming media Electronic slideshow None of the above 5 Which of the following news media-related roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Spokesperson Writer / editor Media strategist Media advisor Journalism professor or trainer Journalist Producer / director Publisher News broadcaster None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating verbally? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from the Department, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 7 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in serving as the point of contact or liaison with other Bureaus, Department officials, the public and other entities with whom you worked cooperatively to organize and strategize new plans and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 From the following statements, select the one choice that BEST describes the scope of your experience making oral recommendations, presentations and/or briefings: Answer to this question is required I have made oral recommendations, presentations and/or briefings regarding potential changes in policies, practices and/or procedures. I have made oral recommendations, presentations and/or briefings that resulted in a change to organization-level policies, practices and/or procedures. I have made oral recommendations, presentations and/or briefings that resulted in a change to agency-level policies, practices and/or procedures. I have made oral recommendations, presentations and/or briefings that resulted in a change to government-wide or industry-wide policies, practices and/or procedures. None of the above. 10 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 11 At what level have you organized planned and coordinated activities? Answer to this question is required Across organizations Organization-wide Major division Work unit None of the above 12 Select from the list below the tasks that require you to utilize your oral communication skills: Answer to this question is required Reminding supervisor of appointments Arrange for advance of funds Prepare itineraries and travel vouchers Request Time and Attendance (T&A) Reports and leave slips Schedule and arrange meetings Serve as office liaison Meeting and greeting visitors None of the above 13 Select the types of interactions you have experienced as a regular part of a job. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Greeted office visitors and directed them to the appropriate office or individual. Explained official procedures to staff members. Answered office telephone and provided factual information to callers. Interacted with staff members, coworkers, or the public on a regular basis in a courteous, professional manner. Explained policy and use of standard software systems to staff members. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.