Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following human resources specialty areas do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Placement Labor Relations Employee Relations Human Resources Development Performance Management Classification Compensation Military Information Systems Employee Benefits Senior Executive Service (SES) Political Appointees None of the above 2 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above 3 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in human resources functional areas: Answer to this question is required I have applied knowledge of recruitment flexibilities and techniques to establish and maintain a viable recruitment program. I have critically evaluated the need to reengineer Human Resources processes and provided recommendations. I have developed executive level coaching program for supervisors and managers. I have developed human resources management policy for all the following functional areas of human resources specializations (classification, staffing, position management, and performance management). I have developed human resources management policy for all the following functional areas of human resources specializations (pay administration, premium pay, leave administration, and hours of work). I have developed human resources management policy for two of these functional areas of human resources specializations (classification, staffing, position management, performance management, pay administration, premium pay, and hours of work ). I have not developed human resources management policy for any of the following functional areas of human resources specializations (classification, staffing, position management, performance management, pay administration, premium pay, and hours of work). I have provided advice and assistance to management in resolution of difficult negotiable, grievable, or arbitrable problems. I have provided advice and assistance to supervisors on performance appraisal issues. I have provided advice to upper level management concerning reduction-in-force, office closure, directed reassignment, transfer of function. I have utilized persuasive techniques to obtain cooperation and agreement between interested parties for a mutually agreeable solution. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 4 I have analyzed, researched and applied a wide variety of federal human resource laws, rules, and regulations in the following specialty areas. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resource Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Senior Executive Service Political Appointees None of the above 5 Select the statement(s) that describe your work experience interacting with a variety of individuals in various situations to achieve program goals and/or solutions: Answer to this question is required I have independently solved program issues. I have routinely provided advice and assistance to individuals within my department. I have been regularly consulted by peers or other agency representatives on program issues. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have served on panels or committees. I have presented, defended, or negotiated program specific mission, goals, needs, or problems with senior management and/or contract representatives. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution. I have independently planned and conducted meetings. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical or programmatic issues. None of the above. 6 Please indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job in a human resources environment. Answer to this question is required Written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences. Written products to explain complex, controversial, and agency policies and programs. Reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Issue position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations. Responses to Departmental/agency inquiries. Written justifications of decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. Correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints). Develop agency-wide human resource program policies, guidelines and reports. Draft agency comments on proposed legislation, changes to rules and regulations. None of the above 7 From the list below, identify all of the activities with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Determining the extent to which a program is compliant with policies, regulations and legislation. Formulating program requirements, guidelines and policies and regulations. Interpreting requirements, guidelines and policies and applying to program operations. Writing program regulations. None of the above. 8 Which of the following have you performed in a human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Researching, compiling, and analyzing quantitative and qualitative data. Developing recommendations / options based upon analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Presenting findings and recommendations in writing and orally, based on analysis of quantitative and qualitative data analysis. Analyzing and evaluating on a quantitative and qualitative basis the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Researching new or improved business and management practices for application to programs or operations. Developing new or modified administrative program goals, objectives and/or procedures. Identifying and analyzing data required for use in the management of programs. Performing analytical studies that involve highly significant programs and policy matters. None of the Above 9 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your experience gathering data, conducting analysis and evaluating the results. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed statistical data related to human resources management or programs to identify trends or workforce characteristics that may warrant program changes and/or enhancements. I have knowledge of a wide range of human resources concepts, principles, laws, regulations and practices sufficient to analyze and evaluate data from various human resources program areas and provide sound recommendations for program changes / improvements. I have retrieved, evaluated and analyzed data to assimilate into a report. I have gathered and analyzed human resources data and developed reports. None of the above. 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written or assisted in writing in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material None of the above 11 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Developing, updating and executing portions of a project plan Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing work for technical adequacy and completeness Ensuring timelines and milestones are met Resolving personnel conflicts, differences or problems that have arisen in the work unit Coaching and mentoring individuals / team members to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implemented steps to maintain and improve morale None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I generally work on projects or assignments that are of higher priority. I complete these assignments in a timely manner. I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and complete these assignments in a timely manner. I establish timelines for the completion of an assignment or project and usually complete the task earlier than the deadlines. None of the above 13 Choose the statement(s) that describe your interpersonal communication skills that you have performed as a regular part of a human resources (HR) job. Answer to this question is required I have facilitated controversial / complex HR situations. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups on HR program or issues. I have facilitated the resolution of controversial / complex HR problems. I have developed and enhanced alliances with internal and external groups and individuals. I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to individuals and groups within and outside the office. I have communicated with managers and other Human Resources professionals to provide guidance and assistance in resolving difficult human resources issues. I have ensured that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have communicated with senior executives, managers, and individuals from the Federal, public, and private sectors to influence, recommend, and/or gain acceptance of complex and sensitive HR policies and issues. None of the above. 14 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background on the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests None of the Above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.