Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Applied knowledge of storing, processing, and accessing born digital and digitized audiovisual collections according to established archival standards in a professional setting.** Applied knowledge of storing, processing, and accessing born digital and digitized audiovisual collections with attention to detail where efforts were made to: 1) preserve digital audiovisual files that are cross platform and nonproprietary; 2) transfer the original resource from the device received according to industry best practices; 3) store copies in a secure digital repository; 4) organize and manage technical and descriptive metadata; 5) organize and preserve related material for each digital resource, such as transcripts and photos; and 6) enhance discovery and use of the audiovisual files for each resource utilizing written documentation such as transcripts, finding aids, detailed descriptions of resource content, or other guides to the content. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of storing, processing, and accessing born digital and digitized audiovisual collections including FOUR or FIVE of the above. Applied knowledge of storing, processing, and accessing born digital and digitized audiovisual collections including THREE of the above. Applied knowledge of storing, processing, and accessing born digital and digitized audiovisual collections including TWO of the above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply project management techniques and processes to implement digital library projects or programs. Applied project management techniques and processes to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes including: 1) defining the project including its goals and objectives; 2) developing project plans; 3) estimating and allocating resources; 4) developing schedules and timelines; 5) using computer-based tools to monitor and track progress; 6) working within deadlines and budget; 7) developing communication plans and communicating with stakeholders; 8) addressing project related issues/problems; and 9) developing and implementing risk mitigation plans. Answer to this question is required Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of EIGHT or NINE of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of SIX or SEVEN of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. Applied industry standard project management techniques and processes in the performance of FOUR or FIVE of the above to implement digital library projects and programs. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others. Served as a liaison and worked collaboratively with others to coordinate with project partners to share resources and information, to address and resolve issues, and to: 1) value diversity and develop adaptations to service delivery reflecting an awareness or understanding of cultural and institutional differences; 2) improve workflows, presentation, and/or discovery and use of collection materials; 3) develop and disseminate communication strategies; 4) develop digital content, including related policies and best practices, metadata, and standards; and 5) to develop strategies for information access and delivery that positively reflect the contributions of traditionally underrepresented communities. Answer to this question is required Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to ALL of the above. Led efforts to develop solutions inside and outside of an organization. Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to ALL of the above. Served as a liaison on digital content topics inside and outside an organization. Established professional relationships with other specialists and contacts, including project partners, to coordinate and share resources and information, and address and resolve issues, related to AT LEAST TWO of the above. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) technical documents, 2) project planning documents, 3) issue-oriented briefs and reports, 4)&nbsp; presentations, and 5) formal and other informal correspondence, following the basic rules of spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style for print and non-print materials. This includes tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the audience. Answer to this question is required Meeting deadlines, wrote a wide variety of project related documents, including ALL of the above in an environment facilitating the integration of digital and traditional library services. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Meeting deadlines, wrote a variety of project related documents, including FOUR of the above in an environment facilitating the integration of digital and traditional library services. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Meeting deadlines, wrote a variety of project related documents, including THREE of the above in an environment facilitating access and use of digital materials. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).