Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a college student majoring in Liberal Arts,&nbsp;Photography or Film, Archives or Information Science, Conservation or Historic Preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 What is your expected date of graduation? (month/year) &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Do you have a relative(s) who currently work for the Architect of the Capitol? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please provide us with the name of your relative, their position title or the building or jurisdiction in which they work in. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 What is your highest level of education? Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in high school. I am currently enrolled in an accredited college or university for my associate's degree. I am currently enrolled in an accredited college or university for my bachelor's degree. I am currently enrolled in an accredited college or university in a graduate or professional program. I have been accepted with the intent to attend an accredited college or university for an associate's or bachelor's degree. I have been accepted with the intent to attend an accredited college or university for a graduate or professional program. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience working with photo editing software, such as Adobe Photoshop or Adobe Lightroom? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience working with non-linear audio/video editing software, such as Adobe Premiere or Final Cut Pro X? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience conducting research with original records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please indicate which software applications you are proficient in. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel Microsoft Word Microsoft Power Point Other Software applications None of the above. 10 This position requires you to be at least sixteen (16) years old or turn sixteen (16) years old by the date stated in the &ldquo; Who May Apply/Clarification From the Agency &rdquo; section of the vacancy announcement. Based on this information, do you meet the age requirement for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.