Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: One year of graduate education or 27 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to communicate, in a clear and concise manner, to convey technical information to individuals outside the organization in order to maintain an effective operation. They coordinate with other departments within the medical institution, and is able to communicate effectively with medical professionals, non-medical professionals, and individuals outside the immediate department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained non-technical information regarding mail procedures; and/or I have participated in an internal staff meeting; and/or I have informed supervisor of an issue; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process; and/or I have conducted an on-site survey of all hospital areas of the facility; and/or I have conducted a training course; and/or I have worked in a locator center answering calls and determined proper release of information. I have communicated with co-workers during routine work assignments; and/or I have updated supervisor on a work task; and/or I have communicated a new office procedure/information to co-workers; and/or I have presented basic information during a staff meeting; and/or I have informed supervisor of the status of a project/assignment. I have spoken to co-workers during an institution activity or event; and/or I have provided general information during inmate/staff orientation; and/or I have responded to basic inquiries received from inmates/staff. None of the above. 3 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to interpret and apply standard housekeeping and safety procedures and guidelines. They are required to conduct inspections and on-site surveys of all hospital areas of the facility to ensure compliance with applicable codes, standards and procedures related to hospital housekeeping and infection control principles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the inspection of work areas to ensure safety standards are met on a continual basis; and/or I have reported safety violations; and/or I have referred an inmate for medical/health services; and/or I have instructed inmate work detail on proper use of cleaning equipment; and/or I have referred to Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for chemical content of a product. I have assisted in routine preparation for Joint Commission survey; and/or I have demonstrated basic knowledge of Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations; and/or I have responded to a medical related Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have followed proper procedure in the preparation of an Incident Report; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies in completing tasks. I have completed routine work assignment following Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation; and/or I have received training on Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requirements; and/or I have provided supervisor with information used responding to a medical-related Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies with assistance from the supervisor in completing a routine work assignment. None of the above. 4 Housekeeping Technicians must have knowledge of proper medical housekeeping procedures and the ability to identify safety hazards and infection control concerns, recognize trends, and take remedial actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted daily safety inspection; and/or I have identified safety risk; and/or I have inventoried or monitored safety supplies. I have received training related to safety inspection requirements; and/or I have performed a safety check; and/or I have assisted others during inventoried or monitored safety supplies. I have worn protective gear while performing certain tasks; and/or I have assisted in gathering forms required for an Office of Workers’ Compensation Program (OWCP) claim;and/or I have maintained copies of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) in centralized location for easy access; and/or I have assisted another staff member with conducting a safety check. None of the above. 5 Housekeeping Technicians are responsible for the supervision of inmate work details. They are required to oversee inmates in the performance of their duties for all assigned areas; and develop systems for inmate work detail scheduling, reporting, evaluating, and recordkeeping as it relates to environmental sanitation and housekeeping activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have escorted inmates to call-outs, as instructed; and/or have requested guidance regarding entrance of visitors to see inmates; and/or I have supervised controlled activities with assistance from other staff; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy (bed book counts, etc. I have provided routine activity instructions to others; and/or I have monitored inmates’ activities; and/or I have assisted other staff in managing inmate programs. I have informally counseled inmate on action; and/or I have monitored inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to staff in resolving problems. None of the above. 6 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. They are responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs, such as: preparing responses to internal and external audits, maintaining records and reports about environmental sanitation conditions and concerns, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a supply order form; and/or I have completed standardized forms in recurring work assignments; and/or I have written routine correspondence needing supervisor’s review. I have prepared performance pay forms; and/or I have, with assistance, completed a supply order form; and/or I have completed a property inventory form; and/or I have provided basic responses to inquiries by email. I have prepared internal office memos and/or email correspondence; and/or I have assisted in writing internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes. None of the above. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required at the GL-08 ONLY in those instances where it is directly related to work of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to communicate, in a clear and concise manner, to convey technical information to individuals outside the organization in order to maintain an effective operation. They must coordinate with other departments within the medical institution and are able to communicate effectively with medical professionals, non-medical professionals, and individuals outside the immediate department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved discrepancies with staff or inmates that occurred during inspections; and/or I have provided training on new policy; and/or I have conducted a facility tour for a small group; and/or I have conducted an orientation class; and/or I have trained a detail on hospital housekeeping procedures. I have explained non-technical information regarding mail procedures; and/or I have participated in an internal staff meeting; and/or I have informed supervisor of an issue; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process; and/or I have conducted an on-site survey of all hospital areas of the facility; and/or I have conducted a training course; and/or I have worked in a locator center answering calls and determined proper release of information. I have communicated with co-workers during routine work assignments; and/or I have updated supervisor on a work task; and/or I have communicated a new office procedure/information to co-workers; and/or I have presented basic information during a staff meeting; and/or I have informed supervisor of the status of a project/assignment. None of the above. 3 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. They are responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs, such as preparing responses to internal and external audits, maintaining records and reports about environmental sanitation conditions and concerns, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a supply order form; and/or I have completed standardized forms in recurring work assignments; and/or I have written routine correspondence needing supervisor’s review. I have prepared internal office memos and/or email correspondence; and/or I have assisted in writing internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes. I have completed routine monthly reports; and/or I have prepared an article for newsletter; and/or I have edited an existing lesson plan; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization; and/or I have prepared internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared inmate work evaluations. None of the above. 4 Housekeeping Technicians must be able to interpret and apply standard housekeeping and safety procedures and guidelines. They are required to conduct inspections and on-site surveys of all hospital areas of the facility to ensure compliance with applicable codes, standards and procedures related to hospital housekeeping and infection control principles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed routine work assignment following Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation; and/or I have received training on Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requirements; and/or I have provided supervisor with information used responding to a medical-related Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies with assistance from the supervisor in completing a routine work assignment. I have provided in-depth assistance during Joint Commission survey; and/or I have maintained records in accordance with Joint Commission standards; and/or I have provided recommendations to streamline processes or procedures; and/or I have interpreted and utilized established housekeeping/safety/sanitation policies. I have assisted in routine preparation for Joint Commission survey; and/or I have demonstrated basic knowledge of Joint Commission or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations; and/or I have responded to a medical related Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have followed proper procedure in the preparation of an Incident Report; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies in completing tasks. None of the above. 5 Housekeeping Technicians must have knowledge of proper medical housekeeping procedures and the ability to identify safety hazards and infection control concerns, recognize trends, and take remedial actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted daily safety inspection; and/or I have identified safety risks; and/or I have inventoried or monitored safety supplies. I have received training related to safety inspection requirements; and/or I have performed a safety check; and/or I have assisted others during inventoried or monitored safety supplies. I have monitored sanitation program to ensure it remained consistent with requirements; and/or I have given safety talk to inmates/participants; and/or I have documented picking up of waste; and/or I have knowledge of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) regulations. None of the above. 6 Housekeeping Technicians are responsible for the supervision of inmate work details. They are required to oversee inmates in the performance of their duties for all assigned areas; and develop systems for inmate work detail scheduling, reporting, evaluating, and recordkeeping as it relates to environmental sanitation and housekeeping activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained inmates/staff on a procedure; and/or I have counseled poor-performing inmates; and/or I written an incident report on an inmate’s disciplinary action; and/or I have assigned workloads to a small group; and/or I have supervised an inmate work crew. I have informally counseled inmate on action; and/or I have monitored inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to staff in resolving problems. I have provided routine activity instructions to others; and/or I have monitored inmates’ activities; and/or I have assisted other staff in managing inmate programs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).