Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 All candidates for Data Scientist positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Basic Requirement: (A) Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. OR (B) Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. 1 Do you meet the Basic Requirement as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 grade level of the Federal service as defined. Specialized experience is experience: Collecting, reviewing, or working with data to ensure accuracy and reliability; Performing basic data analysis (e.g., identifying trends, patterns, or discrepancies) using established methods; Creating or working with spreadsheets, datasets, or reports; and Using computer programs or tools (e.g., spreadsheets, databases, or data visualization tools) to organize, analyze, or present data. 2 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I have completed one academic year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or the equivalent). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND graduated in the upper third of the college, university or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration based on completed coursework. I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded in the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I have a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society (listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities). I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service as described above. I have a combination of qualifying graduate education and specialized experience as described above that when combined meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements described above. Grade: 09 All candidates for Data Scientist positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: Basic Requirement: (A) Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. OR (B) Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. 1 Do you meet the Basic Requirement as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-07 grade level of the Federal service as defined. Specialized experience is experience: Performing data preparation, validation, analysis, and data management activities; Retrieving, organizing, and analyzing data from automated systems or databases; Developing reports, dashboards, charts or data visualizations using analytical tools or software (e.g., SQL, Excel, Tableau, Power BI, Python, or similar tools); and Reviewing datasets and reports to support data accuracy and consistency. 2 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).