Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which statement best describe your highest level of experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electrical systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training performing these tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but have not yet performed these tasks on the job. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I am regarded as an expert in performing these tasks, and/or have trained others on how to perform the tasks. 3 Select the tasks you have performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and personal protective equipment. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Made promotion decisions. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 5 Do you have journey-level experience in the electrical occupational field? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial buildings independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which task(s) have you performed to troubleshoot electrical equipment and/or systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Read and interpret building plans Read and interpret blueprints Read and interpret sketches Read and interpret wiring diagrams None of the above 8 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install transformers 480V/208V Install circuit breakers None of the above 9 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above 10 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Lighting Control Systems and for the day-to-day overall performance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select the tasks you have performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Removed fixtures and replaced fixtures. Removed controls and replaced controls. Used multi-Meter to trace out ground faults. Used building drawings to locate circuitry. Installed transformers. Installed new outlets in existing circuits. Relocated outlets in existing circuits. None of the above 13 Please select the choice(s) reflecting equipment you have used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Megger Amp-meters Circuit Tracer Power Quality Analyzer Amp probes None of the above 14 Which tour of duty are you interested in working?&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Monday-Friday 2:00 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Sunday-Thursday 10:00 p.m. - 6:30 a.m. 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.