Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience performing program management tasks such as: 1.) planning and developing program goals and objectives (e.g., full lifecycle of IT services); 2.) developing, scheduling, coordinating and managing projects and resources (e.g., monitoring and inspecting costs, work and contractor performance); 3.) and providing oversight for the delivery of various hardware and software solutions to meet operating needs. 2 Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 How many years of experience do you have supervising IT professionals responsible for managing and maintaining the daily operation of systems, networks and related infrastructure? Answer to this question is required Eight (8) years or more. Five (5) to eight (8) years. One (1) to five (5) years. Less than one (1) year. None of the above. 2 Do you have experience implementing or troubleshooting infrastructure components? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which infrastructure components do you have experience implementing or troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Cisco Infrastructure Cisco switch hardware Microsoft Active Directory Microsoft Exchange Microsoft SharePoint Video Conferencing (e.g., Polycom, Skype, ZoomGov, WebEx, Teams) Virtualized server services (e.g., VMWare, Hyper V) Microsoft Office 365 None of the above 4 Have you managed the implementation of Microsoft Office Suite or Office 365 software for an organization with multiple file servers? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you independently performed with Cisco network infrastructure router and switch hardware? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which tasks have you independently performed with Cisco network infrastructure router and switch hardware? Answer to this question is required Configuration Installation Maintenance Evaluating performance Replacement Upgrading None of the above 7 Have you ever managed the performance of information technology software, hardware, and networks? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which tasks have you performed to manage the performance of information technology software, hardware, and networks? Answer to this question is required Performed testing and acceptance processes Supported end-users in selecting computer equipment Resolved problems with software Resolved problems with hardware Resolved problems with systems networks Integrated hardware and software systems None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of an information technology employees or contractors? Answer to this question is required Established employee performance standards Assigned work to employees Counseled employees to improve/maintain performance Reviewed employee work for quality and completion Conducted on-the-job training for employees Disciplined employees Evaluated employee performance Recommended selection/promotion of employees Recommended and approved training None of the above 10 Which documents have you written to manage contractor selection for Information Technology projects? Answer to this question is required Statements of Work Technical specifications Project plans Cost comparisons None of the above 11 Have you written summaries of technical information technology issues for senior management (e.g., briefings, talking points)? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience creating system documentation (e.g., specifications, standard operating procedures). Answer to this question is required I have independently created system documentation for multiple systems. 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have independently created system documentation. 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have assisted others with the creation of system documentation. 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. I have completed education or training related to system documentation processes, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I do not have experience creating system documentation. 13 Which of the following interpersonal communications tasks have you performed independently? Answer to this question is required Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet a program objective Defended recommendations on controversial issues to senior management Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations Negotiated expectations for work product/deliverables None of the above 14 Which tasks have you performed to orally communicate about information technology (IT) issues? Answer to this question is required Made presentations to senior staff without an IT background Made presentations to staff with an IT background Resolved technical questions from end-users by providing assistance Advised committees on IT activities None of the above 15 Have you participated on a Configuration Management Project Team? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Do you have experience collaborating with senior management on projects to create information technology (IT) policy? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 17 Which tasks have you performed to manage Information Technology (IT) projects? Answer to this question is required Developed project plans/schedules Estimated resource requirements Defined objectives and goals Monitored activities/project status Developed corrective action plans Evaluated project accomplishments None of the above 18 Do you have experience evaluating the quality, quantity, and timeliness of work products produced by Information Technology employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you motivated employees who are accustomed to performing tasks using routine methods to adopt new technologies or processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.