Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades - The date immediately preceding an individual`s 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment to a position as a law enforcement officer as defined in title 5 U.S.C. 8331(20) or in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17). This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by title 5 U.S.C. section 8336(c) provisions. From the descriptions below, select the one that accurately describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am 37 years of age or older prior to the opening date of this announcement. However, I am currently in or have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by title 5 U.S.C. section 8336(c) provisions. I am 37 years of age or older prior to the opening date of this announcement. However, I have previously been covered by the retirement provision for Federal Law Enforcement Officers and, if selected for this position, will complete at least 20 years of covered service by the mandatory retirement age of 57. I am a (preference eligible veteran) and have served in the military in which my age may be waived. My entry age must allow me to attain the 20 years of Federal Law enforcement service before the mandatory retirement age for all Federal Law Enforcement positions by title 5 U.S.C. § 8336(c) or § 8412(d) provisions I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades - The date immediately preceding an individual`s 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment to a position as a law enforcement officer as defined in title 5 U.S.C. 8331(20) or in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17). This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by title 5 U.S.C. section 8336(c) provisions. From the descriptions below, select the one that accurately describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am 37 years of age or older prior to the opening date of this announcement. However, I am currently in or have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by title 5 U.S.C. section 8336(c) provisions. I am 37 years of age or older prior to the opening date of this announcement. However, I have previously been covered by the retirement provision for Federal Law Enforcement Officers and, if selected for this position, will complete at least 20 years of covered service by the mandatory retirement age of 57. I am a (preference eligible veteran) and have served in the military in which my age may be waived. My entry age must allow me to attain the 20 years of Federal Law enforcement service before the mandatory retirement age for all Federal Law Enforcement positions by title 5 U.S.C. § 8336(c) or § 8412(d) provisions I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 7 This position requires a security clearance at the Top Secret level. Do you possess, or are willing to obtain and maintain throughout the length of the appointment, a Top Secret clearance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 This position requires you to submit to random drug testing. Are you willing to undergo random urinalysis drug test? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 This position requires the incumbent to sign a mobility agreement. Are you willing to sign and abide by a mobility agreement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).