Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes: 1) Extensive work experience in designing, developing, analyzing, managing and implementing a comprehensive investigative compliance program; 2) overseeing productivity improvement, management controls, and long-range planning activities; 3) leading program development, program implementation, and/or project leadership; and 4) managing employee hiring, performance and conduct. I do not meet the requirement as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 7 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 If you reside outside the local commuting area, this position requires that you work full-time from a home office and have high-speed Internet Access. If you are selected, can you comply with these requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I am a current Federal CPSC employee on a career or career- conditional appointment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following types of written products have you produced as a regular part of a job? (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Justification impact and analysis. Correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources. Feedback on proposed programs and guidance. Procedural guidance. Report findings on studies or investigations. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Organizational assessments. None of the above. 14 Select your level of experience in conducting complex and sensitive consumer product safety-related injury and/or death investigations. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in conducting complex and sensitive consumer product safety-related injury and/or death investigations. I have participated with others in conducting complex and sensitive consumer product safety-related injury and/or death investigations. I have independently conducted complex and sensitive consumer product safety-related injury and/or death investigations. I have performed as a team leader in conducting complex and sensitive consumer product safety-related injury and/or death investigations. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing, implementing and managing a program using available resources to meet the program goals? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing these tasks. I have had education or training in performing any or all of these tasks but have not yet performed them on the job. I have implemented and managed a program but have not developed it. I have developed, implemented and managed a program 16 I have performed the following duties regarding operations management and oversight. (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Developed and implemented management control procedures to ensure effective and efficient use of personnel resources. Evaluated existing administrative processes and streamlined processes based on review of results Served as coordinator or head of a project team Formulated goals and priorities for staff None of the above 17 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving personnel issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving personnel issues. I have experience resolving minor personnel issues. I have experience resolving complex personnel issues, the resolution of which required interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience working with HR and EEO in resolving complex personnel issues and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 18 I have effectively performed the following duties (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Coached and provided guidance to employees on individual and career development. Provided training to new employees and/or employees who need additional guidance in various skill areas. Reviewed the work of others for technical accuracy and resolved any problems that were noted. Set work priorities and adjusted workflow among staff to accomplish work objectives. Prepared meaningful, measurable performance objectives and standards for staff. Established effective measurement systems to monitor and adjust workload and assignments and determine methods to provide better service. Prepared annual performance appraisals and conducted appraisal sessions with staff. Evaluated existing human resources processes and streamlined processes based on review of results. Determined training needs of staff and addressed those needs. Made selections and/or participated in the process for staff positions. Counseled and/or took action against employees concerning performance or conduct issues. Rewarded employees for work accomplishments. None of the above. 19 I have made oral presentation to the following audiences. (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Employees Team members and/or peers Supervisors and or managers in the organization None of the above 20 I have experience working with staff members to develop their skills. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 23 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 24 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).