Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree in architecture or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design and; (2) 6 semester hours were in the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of contruction, and environmental control systems. OR A combination of education and experience--college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and contruction or improvement of buildings. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: Related Curriculum : A degree in architectural engineering may be accepted as satisfying in full the basic requirements, provided the completed course work in architectural engineering provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in paragraph A. The curriculum for a degree in either architecture or architectural engineering covers function, esthetics, site, structure, economics, mechanical-electrical, and other engineering problems related to the design and construction of buildings primarily (but not exclusively) intended to house human activities. The courses required for a degree in architecture generally place emphasis upon planning, esthetics, and materials and methods of construction, while the courses for an architectural engineering degree place equal or greater weight on the technical engineering aspects such as structural systems, mechanical systems, and the properties of materials. Because of this difference in emphasis, persons with degrees in architecture may have a preference for work assignments that offer greater opportunities for them to express their artistic and creative abilities. As a result, they may be more concerned with planning and design aspects of architecture, and persons with degrees in architectural engineering may be more engaged in aspects emphasizing technical engineering considerations. Experience : An applicant lacking a degree in architecture must have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of such experience is required. This experience must have demonstrated that the applicant has acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST &nbsp;upload legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Projects Administrator must interact with various state and federal officials, congressional staff, government consultants, supervisors, and co-workers in order to facilitate the development and construction of architectural projects. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made significant contributions and recommendations during the development of policies for an agency/organization within the technical design guidelines and program design guidelines in accordance with the mission of the organization; and/or I have represented an agency/organization at American Institute of Architects (AIA) meetings and gave presentations as a subject matter expert in a particular field; and/or I have given formal presentation to the Executive Staff. I have conducted meetings with consultants and engineers, discussing budgets and construction coordination; and/or I have given presentations to community groups addressing concerns related to institution construction; presented designs to planning review boards; and/or I have kept government representatives abreast of a project’s progress; and/or I have discussed new permits or transfer of property with governmental entities or representatives of local, state/Federal government officials. I have discussed scheduling with project administrators; and/or I have reviewed facility plans; and/or I have discussed construction related to institution security with the Correctional Services Administrator. None of the above. 6 The Projects Administrator must be able to create reports, memoranda, and letters in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a project status update; and/or I have drafted a letter outlining specific managerial functions for an architectural project; and/or I have finalized statements of work for Project Managers; and/or I have prepared contract specifications and modifications. I have provided clear and concise comments to pre-design documents as related to the standards set by the organization; and/or I have written papers or reports to state the agency’s position and to further the objectives of the agency’s design and construction program; and/or I have reviewed reports and papers from staff/contractors to ensure technical accuracy and compliance with objectives, policies, and guidelines. I have submitted an update of project status to public officials; and/or I have drafted a letter addressing the applicability of building codes to a permitting agency; and/or I have developed manuals for use by contractors and engineers; and/or I have drafted a letter to a congressional, addressing environmental issues. None of the above. 7 The Projects Administrator must effectively use time and manpower in the management and coordination of architectural projects. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated all aspects of a large-scale architectural project; and/or I have negotiated contracts with contractors and owners; and/or I have successfully completed a large-scale architectural project within the allocated budget; and/or I have established time schedules for the completion of a large-scale architectural project; and/or I have defined project goals, budget and objectives; and/or I have established project delivery strategies. I have monitored and maintained the budget for an architectural project; and/or I have maintained time schedules for an architectural project; and/or I have participated in the planning process for an architectural project; and/or I have tailored procedures for communication and documentation; and/or I have assigned responsibility for specific architectural project tasks. I have managed and directed multiple architectural projects from design phase to final construction; and/or I have provided technical and program design guidance to a construction contractor, integrating project schedules and value engineering to receive a better product; and/or I have monitored technical aspects of contracts pertinent to the design and construction program to ensure successful completion; and/or I have coordinated technical elements of agency’s design and construction program with related activities of other federal agencies. None of the above. 8 The Projects Administrator must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of advanced principles and practices of architecture, related engineering disciplines and of construction methods and techniques. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed the production of large-scale projects, such as medical centers or correctional institutions; and/or I have coordinated architectural consultants and documents; and/or I have instructed consultants on problematic issues; and/or I have provided expert advice and made design decisions on a large-scale architectural project. I have implemented decisions of a project manager/architect; and/or I have reviewed construction and design documents for a project; and/or I have displayed a thorough understanding of one or more technical aspects of a project. I have assisted a manager in discussions with government agencies for code analysis; and/or I have engaged in a group discussion verifying a project’s adherence to the building code; and/or I have participated in the selection of key team members including consultants and construction managers; and/or I have reviewed a project’s accessibility relating to American Disability Act (ADA)/Architectural Barriers Act (ABA) standards. None of the above. 9 The Projects Administrator must possess the ability to collect and organize information to develop time schedules and meet deadlines in order to plan or carry out work assignments. &nbsp; He/she will demonstrate working with different disciplines/program areas to develop standard, policies, and guidelines for construction projects within the Bureau. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed unique design/program objectives based upon the needs of the project; and/or I have coordinated plans/procedures used to carry out work assignments in an architectural setting; and/or I have developed project schedule for individual construction projects. I have met with professional engineers, structural, mechanical, electrical, to develop agency/organization standards for construction projects; and/or I have developed project schedules for use as a standard to be followed by contractor and administered by field project staff; and/or I have led pre-design and other conferences to define functional requirements, advise on design criteria and guide specifications, and resolve technical errors. I have proposed recommendations to standards, policies, guidelines for construction projects; and/or I have proposed unique design/program objectives to supervisor based upon the needs of the project; and/or I have monitored project schedules for individual construction projects and made recommendations for change. None of the above. 10 The Projects Administrator may supervise one or more project management teams assigned the primary responsibility for the planning, development, design, and construction of new/renovated correctional facilities. &nbsp; He/she must interact with staff to provide guidance and oversight, identify problems and possible solutions, and render advice to the project teams both within Central Office and the project sites at field locations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made required entries in subordinates’ performance logs in accordance with policy; and/or I have informed subordinates of local strategic plan goals; and/or I have supervised and delegated tasks to subordinates; and/or I have developed a training plan for subordinate staff; and/or I have identified strengths and weaknesses of project management teams and adjusted assignments based upon project requirements. I have, when completing performance evaluations, elaborated on the subordinates’ strengths and weaknesses, as well as accomplishments; and/or I have reviewed subordinate supervisor’s performance logs on their staff before issuance; and/or I have met with subordinates throughout the project management teams progress and provided them with verbal feedback regarding their performance; and/or I have provided information and guidance on the agency/organization strategic plans to subordinates; and/or I have supervised the review of architectural and engineering documents developed for projects; and/or I have chaired a technical design panel for a major construction contract. I have developed and implemented a tracking system or other systematic method for evaluating performance that was adopted by management; and/or I have implemented progressive discipline methods or procedures for staff whose performance was marginal, such as counseling letters and performance improvement plans; and/or I have created a system/program/process that was adopted and implemented by the agency to monitor or measure some aspect of the organization’s progress; and/or I have supervised the identification and organization of the activities and staff required to implement the delivery of assigned projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).