Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have graduated from a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained with an undergraduate or graduate degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. My degree is in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I do not have the education as described in the above statements. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet the qualification requirements, as described in the announcement, to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, as described in the Requirements section of the announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.