Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the specialized experience for this GS-2210-11 position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of this position as outline in the vacancy announcement. I have Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of knowledge of, and work experience with, monitoring of database performance, maintaining database installation and configurations, performing database recovery and backup, performing capacity planning, and providing support to development teams in the areas of design, performance, and data administration. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the above-referenced database administration tasks. I have received training and education in, but have not performed these database administrative tasks. I have performed these database administration tasks as part of a team. I have with minimal supervision, performed these database administration tasks for systems with less than 100 users. I have with minimal supervision, performed these database administration tasks for Institution wide applicaitons that serve more than 100 users. I have work expereince performing these database administration tasks, with no supervision, for Institution wide applications that serve more than 100 users. 3 Which of the following tasks can you perform using relational database software? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have looked up information in tables. I have created new tables. I have created new queries. I have created new forms and/or reports. I have designed a database. I have programmed in SQL. I have created code to integrate a database into a web environment. I have not performed any of these functions. 4 Which of the following data management functions have you routinely carried out in your employment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Populate databases with records from flat file systems Apply data modeling techniques in system designs Produce database designs/schemas Develop and implement back up and recovery procedures Develop programs using relational database management systems (RDBMS) Evaluate the operating performance of RDBMS applications Design databases used to automate business processes Design databases used to support scientific processes Design databases to support other processes Develop reports using Crystal or other tools Convert data from one database to others Develop data standards and dictionaries Re-engineer database architectures to reduce processing time and computer resources None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes the functional area in which you have the greatest level of IT experience? Answer to this question is required On-site, active Computer Desktop Support Help Desk Computer Desktop Support Web Authoring Web Services Support Systems Development/Systems Analysis Operating Systems/Network Services Data Management Systems Administration/Customer Support IT Security None of the above 6 Which of the following most accurately and fully describes your skill level and experience in communicating with a variety of different stakeholders and/or customers in an information technology setting? Answer to this question is required I have acquired, clarified or exchanged information with information technology stakeholders and/or customers to complete assignments. The information ranged from easily understood to highly technical. I have planned, coordinated, or advised stakeholders and/or customers on work efforts, or resolved issues or operating problems by influencing or persuading people who are working toward mutual goals and have basically cooperative attitudes. Contacts have typically involved identifying options for defining requirements or resolving problems. I have influenced and persuaded employees and managers to accept and implement findings and recommendations. I have encountered resistance as a result of issues such as organizational conflict, competing objectives, or resource problems. I have approached contacts to obtain the desired effect; e.g., gaining compliance with established policies and regulations by persuasion or negotiation. I have presented, justified, defended, negotiated, or settled matters involving significant or controversial issues of considerable consequence or importance, e.g., recommendations changing the nature and scope of programs or dealing with substantial expenditures. I have actively participated in conferences, meetings, hearings and/or presentations involving problems or issues. I have achieved a common understanding, offered a satisfactory solution, and/or developed suitable alternatives. None of the above. 7 Which of the following IT customer support duties have you performed on a routine basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Desktop support. Database administration. Network operations. Formal or informal IT training. Direct technical support for desktop computers, laptops, and printers. Tracking customer service request (e.g. Heat Tracking). Providing advice and solutions to a wide range of IT issues. None of the above. 8 Please choose the answer(s) that best reflect your experience in providing customer support services. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I analyze, diagnose and resolve customer support requests involving reported incidents. I install, configure, troubleshoot and maintain customer hardware and software. I create and maintain desktop images. I support Windows-based PCs. I support Macintosh workstations. I assist in the development of customer support policies, procedures and standards. I set up new users and install client software. I develop problem tracking and resolution databases. I maintain problem tracking and resolution databases. I formulate, investigate or otherwise determine through various sources, a solution to all users? computer requests. I have the ability to work effectively under pressure with fluctuating deadlines, shifting work from one project or task to another. I represent the office in planning the installation and implementation of new systems. 9 Please select the answer which best reflects your experience working with SQL and relational database systems. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of SQL or relational databases I have had education or training in SQL and database systems, but have not used it on the job I have working knowledge of SQL and have used it to manage one or more relational databases I have extensive knowledge of SQL and use it on a regular basis to manage one or more relational databases I am an expert user in this language and have written a large amount of code using it 10 What is your familiarity with SQL (Structured Query Language)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have examined and used the results of a SQL database query. I have constructed my own SQL query. I have constructed complex queries that join more than one database table. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.