Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your ability to trouble shoot in order to solve customer problems? Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I do not have any education, training or experience in performing this task. 4 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Research capabilities Analysis capabilities Planning Monitoring response Prioritization Collaboration Accommodation Resolving Conflict Negotiating Compromise Persuasiveness Identifying the need / requirement Establishing parameters Responsiveness None of the above 5 Please select the choice(s) that describe your experience evaluating customer service delivery: Answer to this question is required Conducts a customer service delivery survey. Interviews customers or clients to obtain information regarding customer needs, preferences, quality standards, etc. Interviews customers or clients to determine satisfaction. Negotiates with customers or clients to solve problems or meet needs. Exercises tact or diplomacy in negotiations, conflict resolution, and/or dealing with customers or clients holding strong and contrary points of view. None of the above. 6 Choose the answer that BEST describes your ability to provide effective customer service. Customer service means: working with customers to assess and understand their issues, needs, and priorities; providing information or assistance; offering and implementing solutions to problems; facilitating discussions; and striving to satisfy expectations. Answer to this question is required I respond proactively to customer issues and needs; anticipate and plan for future needs; and take personal responsibility for resolving service problems in a timely manner. I participate on teams to provide solutions to customer problems or to establish systems / processes to assist in meeting customer service requirements. I assess current customer service practices, develop approaches to address systemic issues, and ensure that changes are implemented as envisioned. I consider the impact on the customer when taking action or carrying out tasks by asking questions to identify the customer's needs and expectations. None of the above 7 From the choices below, please choose the statement that BEST describes your experience communicating orally in both formal and informal settings: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education and/or training on influencing, motivating, or persuading persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have conducted discussions, with close supervision, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from private industry, the Agency, Department, other Federal agencies). 8 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 9 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 10 Select the response(s) that reflect your experience working with persons representing diverse backgrounds and interests as a team member to accomplish work-related issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience collaborating with others to accomplish work-related activities. I have successfully worked with a variety of individuals, including customers, contractors, employees, and supervisors. I have interacted with groups and/or individuals of all levels, both within and outside the organization to accomplish goals. I have extensive training, education, and experience in team building skills, and successful application of the skills learned. I have experience in leadership within a social organization, civil group, or club where the goals are internal to the organization. I have experience as a member of a team that addresses projects that encompass the development of procedures and practices. I have experience in various team settings and situations where the activities of several people with diverse backgrounds are involved, preparation time is limited and the outcome is successful. I have experience as a member of a team charged with developing systems that encompass various processes, authorities, and responsibilities, or focuses on research and problem solving where the problems are of moderate complexity. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in serving as the point of contact or liaison with other Bureaus, Department officials, the public and other entities with whom you worked cooperatively to organize and strategize new plans and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your organizational training experience? Answer to this question is required I have served as an organizational training program manager in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; managed a training budget; and collaborated with other training professionals in developing integrated training opportunities for a broad spectrum of employees. I have served as an organizational training expert in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; managed a training budget; and collaborated with other training professionals in developing integrated training opportunities for a broad spectrum of employees. I have served as an organizational training coordinator in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; ensured funding was available for training requests; and publicized training opportunities. I have supported training program activities, e.g. advising management and employees on training requirements, e.g. eligibility; reviewed training requests for completeness; and publicized training opportunities. None of the above 13 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Ethics agreements Proposals Financial Statements Policy documents Answers to congressional inquires Waiver request Procedures and guidelines Research reports Responses to Office of the Inspector General (IG) Responses to Government Accountability Office (GAO) None of the above 14 Please select the one response that best describes your experience in handling written material. Answer to this question is required I review incoming material, documents, or mail for completeness and file or route materials according to instructions. I review incoming material, documents, or mail and determine proper disposition or routing based on established assignments or areas. I screen incoming material, documents, or mail and determine proper disposition or routing based on my understanding of the subject or content. I send routine acknowledgements to certain inquiries. I screen incoming material, documents, or mail and determine appropriate action. I send routine replies based upon nature of inquiry. I locate and attach related material to items that must be assigned to others for action. None of the above. 15 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. None of the above. 16 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to communicate with a variety of individuals on issues involving the explanation of administrative procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following training program activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Conduct organizational training needs assessments through studies and/or surveys. Recommend alternative training delivery systems; e.g. distance learning, computer-based training, etc. Prioritize organizational training requirements. Administer training program budgets. Partner with educational institutions to provide tailored training or educational opportunities. Recommend and implement new training opportunities. Determine the best sources of training for various subject / issues, e.g. contract, in-house. Conduct outreach initiatives to promote training and career development. None of the above. 18 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in managing and coordinating programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices and procedures. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices and procedures. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 19 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience in controlling and directing others to achieve organizational information resources goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 20 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 21 Which of the following leadership functions have you preformed in work units or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your ability to trouble shoot in order to solve customer problems? Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I do not have any education, training or experience in performing this task. 4 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Research capabilities Analysis capabilities Planning Monitoring response Prioritization Collaboration Accommodation Resolving Conflict Negotiating Compromise Persuasiveness Identifying the need / requirement Establishing parameters Responsiveness None of the above 5 Please select the choice(s) that describe your experience evaluating customer service delivery: Answer to this question is required Conducts a customer service delivery survey. Interviews customers or clients to obtain information regarding customer needs, preferences, quality standards, etc. Interviews customers or clients to determine satisfaction. Negotiates with customers or clients to solve problems or meet needs. Exercises tact or diplomacy in negotiations, conflict resolution, and/or dealing with customers or clients holding strong and contrary points of view. None of the above. 6 Choose the answer that BEST describes your ability to provide effective customer service. Customer service means: working with customers to assess and understand their issues, needs, and priorities; providing information or assistance; offering and implementing solutions to problems; facilitating discussions; and striving to satisfy expectations. Answer to this question is required I respond proactively to customer issues and needs; anticipate and plan for future needs; and take personal responsibility for resolving service problems in a timely manner. I participate on teams to provide solutions to customer problems or to establish systems / processes to assist in meeting customer service requirements. I assess current customer service practices, develop approaches to address systemic issues, and ensure that changes are implemented as envisioned. I consider the impact on the customer when taking action or carrying out tasks by asking questions to identify the customer's needs and expectations. None of the above 7 From the choices below, please choose the statement that BEST describes your experience communicating orally in both formal and informal settings: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education and/or training on influencing, motivating, or persuading persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have conducted discussions, with close supervision, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are at the same working level or above. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from private industry, the Agency, Department, other Federal agencies). 8 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 9 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 10 Select the response(s) that reflect your experience working with persons representing diverse backgrounds and interests as a team member to accomplish work-related issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience collaborating with others to accomplish work-related activities. I have successfully worked with a variety of individuals, including customers, contractors, employees, and supervisors. I have interacted with groups and/or individuals of all levels, both within and outside the organization to accomplish goals. I have extensive training, education, and experience in team building skills, and successful application of the skills learned. I have experience in leadership within a social organization, civil group, or club where the goals are internal to the organization. I have experience as a member of a team that addresses projects that encompass the development of procedures and practices. I have experience in various team settings and situations where the activities of several people with diverse backgrounds are involved, preparation time is limited and the outcome is successful. I have experience as a member of a team charged with developing systems that encompass various processes, authorities, and responsibilities, or focuses on research and problem solving where the problems are of moderate complexity. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in serving as the point of contact or liaison with other Bureaus, Department officials, the public and other entities with whom you worked cooperatively to organize and strategize new plans and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your organizational training experience? Answer to this question is required I have served as an organizational training program manager in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; managed a training budget; and collaborated with other training professionals in developing integrated training opportunities for a broad spectrum of employees. I have served as an organizational training expert in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; managed a training budget; and collaborated with other training professionals in developing integrated training opportunities for a broad spectrum of employees. I have served as an organizational training coordinator in which I was responsible for advising management on training policies and requirements; ensured funding was available for training requests; and publicized training opportunities. I have supported training program activities, e.g. advising management and employees on training requirements, e.g. eligibility; reviewed training requests for completeness; and publicized training opportunities. None of the above 13 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Ethics agreements Proposals Financial Statements Policy documents Answers to congressional inquires Waiver request Procedures and guidelines Research reports Responses to Office of the Inspector General (IG) Responses to Government Accountability Office (GAO) None of the above 14 Please select the one response that best describes your experience in handling written material. Answer to this question is required I review incoming material, documents, or mail for completeness and file or route materials according to instructions. I review incoming material, documents, or mail and determine proper disposition or routing based on established assignments or areas. I screen incoming material, documents, or mail and determine proper disposition or routing based on my understanding of the subject or content. I send routine acknowledgements to certain inquiries. I screen incoming material, documents, or mail and determine appropriate action. I send routine replies based upon nature of inquiry. I locate and attach related material to items that must be assigned to others for action. None of the above. 15 From the list below select all of the activities in which you have engaged: Answer to this question is required I have led a team consisting of at least four co-workers from my unit to respond to projects that lasted less than 6 months. I have led a team consisting of at least four co-workers from my unit to respond to projects that lasted longer than 6 months. I have led a multidisciplinary team consisting of workers from my work unit and external units to address an ongoing project that lasted less than 6 months. I have led a multidisciplinary team consisting of workers from my work unit and external units to address an ongoing project that lasted longer than 6 months. None of the above. 16 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 17 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience in controlling and directing others to achieve organizational information resources goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 18 Which of the following leadership functions have you preformed in work units or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 19 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. None of the above. 20 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to communicate with a variety of individuals on issues involving the explanation of administrative procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 21 Which of the following training program activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Conduct organizational training needs assessments through studies and/or surveys. Recommend alternative training delivery systems; e.g. distance learning, computer-based training, etc. Prioritize organizational training requirements. Administer training program budgets. Partner with educational institutions to provide tailored training or educational opportunities. Recommend and implement new training opportunities. Determine the best sources of training for various subject / issues, e.g. contract, in-house. Conduct outreach initiatives to promote training and career development. None of the above. 22 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in managing and coordinating programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices and procedures. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices and procedures. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.