Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Please indicate which of the following best illustrates your experience as it relates to financial management responsibility (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I provide procedural guidance concerning the format of submission of annual estimates of funding needs. I calculate the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I analyze financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. I review, edit, and consolidate annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. Prepare/edit narrative justifications and projected funding needs, ensuring that data in requests is formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I monitor the execution of a budget with different sources & types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, allotments from many different appropriations, transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed, and revenue from working capital funds. Analyzes trends in the receipt, obligation, or expenditure of funds, ensuring that objectives of the annual financial plan are being met & funds are available & being properly used to support program objectives. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 3 Which of the following best demonstrates your ability to apply the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience applying the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience applying the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in leading or supervising a team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience supervising or leading teams to accomplish goals. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have served as a team leader over a group of employees to complete projects and/ or daily tasks. I have led teams that required solving complex problems collectively, motivate others, and resolved controversial issues. I have held a supervisory position with responsibility for setting priorities, mentoring, training, and the development of subordinates or others. 5 Select any duties you have held relating to supervision. Answer to this question is required Interviewing and/or selecting new employees. Training employees on-the-job. Evaluating the performance of employees. Approving time and attendance on employees. Recommending personnel actions on employees. Approving personnel actions on employees. I have limited supervisory experience. I have no supervisory experience. 6 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience analyzing and evaluating programs for a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required I have had formal training or education in various analytical evaluation methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience conducting and reporting studies and analysis and making recommendations relating to the management and administrative processes associated with facilities management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following describes your experience communicating information in written format? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared written correspondence, documents, and reports for peers and/or team members. I have prepared written correspondence, documents, and reports for supervisors and/or managers. I have prepared written correspondence and documents for high level officials. I have prepared written correspondence and documents for audiences and/or organizations outside of the immediate organization. I have prepared written correspondence in a professional setting. I have not prepared written correspondence in a professional setting. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting information orally to deliver briefings to senior level management? Answer to this question is required I have conducted resource requirement meetings with groups (e.g., argue budget position in small informal settings such as staff meetings and budget meetings, present arguments for a position effectively using financial data for support and/or evidence). I have made financial management presentations in informal settings/meetings (e.g., participate in group sessions regarding budget submissions and allocation of resources, actively contribute technical and policy issues to strengthen or improve financial plans). I have made technical presentations in small group forum (e.g., participate in inter-office presentations, make recommendations based on analysis of data and resources levels, recommend changes to program financial management practices). I have not had experience or training in presenting information orally to deliver briefings to senior level management. 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed for the purpose of coordinating budget preparations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed, advised, and recommend solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for my organization/office/bureau. I recommend and justified necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have prepared summary analysis of appropriate funds requests and have recommend priority uses of limited funds. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification and execution for the agency. I have reviewed, analyzed, and interpret legislation appropriations language, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directives, Treasury department guidelines, and Congressional and Presidential directives pertaining to the agency budgetary requirements. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to the preparation of department or unit budget justifications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared written budget justifications to support department-level budget requests for review by senior financial staff. I have edited or reviewed written budget justifications prepared by subordinate staff or others. I have prepared written operating procedures related to the development of departmental budget justifications for use by others. I have completed training on the preparation of written budget justifications. I have no experience preparing department or unit budget justifications. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, managing projects, and reporting status updates to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and managed programs and projects as project manager, and reported status updates to management. I am regularly consulted as an expert in project coordination. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates to management. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and assisted with the coordination of programs and projects, and reported status updates to project manager. I have education or training evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, and coordinating programs and projects but I have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in researching and analyzing data, and then using the conclusions to propose improvements to supervisors? Answer to this question is required I have researched and compiled information. I have analyzed data. I have created reports based on my research and/or analysis. I have proposed process or program improvements to supervisors based on my research and/or analysis. I have helped to implement the improvements that I have suggested. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.