Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to the duties of the position. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M., if related. I have a combination of education and experience: An equivalent combination of the specialized experience and the graduate-level education described above. None of the above Specialized experience is defined as having experience: - Conducting surveillance activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by a variety of private contractors, including reviewing project plans and specifications for workability; and&nbsp; - Assisting in managing and technically directing contract administration activities. Includes monitoring contractor activities through personal contact or review of performance data to ensure compliance with technical, financial and delivery requirements of the contract. 2 Do you have experience performing comprehensive evaluations of ongoing security related infrastructure and facilities projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience conducting inspections of facilities and/or project construction sites? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience working a construction program where multiple projects and contractors activities overlapped creating challenges related to customer and contractor coordination? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: Conducting surveillance activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by a variety of private contractors, including reviewing project plans and specifications for workability; and Managing and technically directing contract administration activities. Includes monitoring contractor activities through personal contact or review of performance data to ensure compliance with technical, financial and delivery requirements of the contract. 2 Do you have experience performing comprehensive evaluations of ongoing security related infrastructure and facilities projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience conducting inspections of facilities and/or project construction sites? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience working a construction program where multiple projects and contractors activities overlapped creating challenges related to customer and contractor coordination? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience coordinating with managers, contractors, stakeholders and other external organizations to create and manage project timelines and ensure deliverables? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which project/program management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Developed statements of work (SOW) Developed independent government estimates Developed project timelines and milestones Created project plans Identified needed resources, such as for budgetary purposes Monitored and evaluated contractor work Monitored project progress and performance Verified quality of project deliverables Accepted deliverables for fulfillment of contract requirements None of the above 3 Do you have experience coordinating with managers, contractors, stakeholders and other external organizations to develop and manage project timelines, policies, and processes, and ensure deliverables? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the contracting functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs) developed by others Estimating needed resources Shifting resources to meet needs Participating in the acquisition planning process Assessing competitive bidding procedures Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals Developing independent cost estimates Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation None of the above 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience managing work on multiple, simultaneous projects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing multiple, simultaneous projects. I have studied methods to manage simultaneous projects, but have not applied these techniques on the job. I have managed one aspect of a single project (e.g., the electrical system). I have managed multiple aspects of one project at a time, from inception to completion. I have managed multiple different projects simultaneously, in various stages of completion. 6 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 7 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 8 Do you have experience working in an office setting for an organization that is responsible for supporting capital projects and facilities maintenance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I have explained technical information to non-technical audiences in a way that increased their understanding of the topic or issue. Answer to this question is required True False 10 Which communication duties have you performed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization Facilitated communications between organizational entities Briefed senior management Presented recommendations on controversial issues Provided guidance/consultation to others on professional issues None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.