Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 This position is temporary. Are you willing to work in a temporary role? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 If considered for this position, which of the following shifts are you available to work (select all that apply): Answer to this question is required Day Shift Evening Shift Night Shift All Shifts None of the above 4 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience lifting objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which tasks have you performed to move items safely? Answer to this question is required Balanced boxes on a cart or dolly Maneuvered items on uneven flooring surfaces Maneuvered items through narrow openings Moved items in areas with a large number of people None of the above 8 Do you have experience cleaning large facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience reading work orders or requests for cleaning services. Answer to this question is required I have independently read and interpreted work orders to complete cleaning tasks. I have verified cleaning tasks required by a work order with a supervisor after reading a work order. I have received assistance from a senior employee to read and interpret work orders. None of the above 10 Which of the following types of material and equipment do you have experience responding to requests to move and deliver? Answer to this question is required Packed boxes of different sizes File cabinets Pallets Cleaning equipment Debris Safes Book/Display cases None of the above 11 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set Up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with construction projects Removed ice and snow from building steps and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivery of collection containers Sort a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, bottles, or cans None of the above 12 In which of the following locations have you arranged tables, chairs and equipment for special events? Answer to this question is required auditoriums dining areas outside plazas training rooms concert venues committee rooms None of the above 13 Which tasks have you performed to clean or tidy building areas? Answer to this question is required Vacuumed floors Picked up pieces of trash or waste Emptied trash cans Delivered trash cans Moved furniture Delivered office supplies Dusted furniture or objects Washed walls None of the above 14 Which equipment have you used to move or haul items (e.g., furniture, construction debris, cleaning materials)? Answer to this question is required Pallet jacks (manual) Pallet jacks (electric/battery operated) Forklifts Utility carts Dollies / Hand trucks Furniture gliders / sliders None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.