Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as:&nbsp;Serving as technical authority interpreting HVAC design standards and operational theory to ensure reliable performance of complex building systems;&nbsp;Conducting inspections of critical facility systems and evaluating areas of opportunity and improvement;&nbsp;Overseeing personnel responsible for repairs and maintenance of mechanical, electrical and facility systems; and&nbsp;Interpreting and enforcing contract requirements. 2 Which tasks have you performed to oversee maintenance or repairs? Answer to this question is required Surveying and inspecting facilities/machinery Determining extent of damage sustained Identifying the type of repairs required Determining the cost of repairs or maintenance None of the above 3 Which facilities management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Reviewed facility condition assessments. Coordinated repair of facilities and grounds. Monitored facilities utilities consumption or resource efficiency. Arranged for the storage and distribution of supplies and materials. None of the above 4 Have you ever used a Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) or Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience managing, coordinating and/or leading in the development of Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) or Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) related databases to define and manage facilities management work processes, projects, and support contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have made binding decisions within my scope of authority on a regular and recurring basis to resolve project issues in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Select the elements of a project plan that you have developed. Answer to this question is required Scope of work Schedule of project activities Milestones and deadlines Project budgets Required resources Quality standards Safety plan None of the above 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience maintaining and repairing facilities and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining and repairing facilities and equipment. I have identified facility and/or equipment maintenance/repair needs and notified a manager or more senior employee to address. I scheduled or performed maintenance/repairs for facilities and/or equipment. I oversaw the scheduling and completion of maintenance/repairs for facilities and/or equipment. 9 Please identify the task(s) you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract. Monitors contractor activities through personal contact. Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization. Engaged in the strategic planning process. Procure complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques. Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications. None of the above. 10 Have you organized and prioritized multiple projects, simultaneously? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 I have presented designs to oversight entities (e.g., supervisors, managers, clients, congressional committees) and received approval. Answer to this question is required True False 12 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 13 I have explained technical information to non-technical audiences in a way that increased their understanding of the topic or issue. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Have you written technical information in a way that non-technical audiences easily understood the information? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which interpersonal skills have you routinely applied in a work setting? Answer to this question is required Facilitating the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to staff Persuading and/or inspiring others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques Diffusing confrontational situations with people who were frustrated, argumentative, or upset Developing trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds Promoting the organization's goals, mission and values None of the above 16 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statements of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitoring contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, and managing contractor project activities, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing and evaluating contract performance, and managing contractor project activities as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 17 Have you evaluated facilities for compliance with applicable codes and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you been responsible for ensuring the proper operation of all aspects of a building to create an optimal, safe, and cost effective environment for the occupants? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you used a building automation system to monitor and control building mechanical, electrical, and plumbing systems (i.e., HVAC, lighting, security and alarms, power and water, elevators, etc.)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Do you have experience with coordination of facilities management work or projects to meet customer service requests? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.