Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 This position requires lifting and carrying items weighing up to 80 pounds or more. Are you able to lift and carry items weighing up to 80 pounds or more? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a Forklift Operator's License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires heavy physical effort, bending, stooping, working in uncomfortable positions. Are you able to bend, stoop, and work in uncomfortable position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 This position requires loading and sorting materials inside or outside in areas that may be hot, damp, cold, dusty, dirty and drafty with exposure to trash and debris. &nbsp; Are you able to work inside or outside in areas that may be hot, damp, cold, dusty, dirty and drafty with exposure to trash and debris? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience? Answer to this question is required I assisted others by breaking down boxes or prepping materials to be baled. I assisted others by securing bales with wire or plastic. I independently created small bales (less than 250 pounds). I independently created large bales (more than 250 pounds). None of the above. 6 Have you operated a baling machine in a work environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which statement best describe your highest level of experience in baling machine work? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I am considered an expert or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 8 Have you determined when there were enough cardboard boxes/materials to create a bale? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 What is the largest number of bales of cardboard that you have made in a week using a baling machine? Answer to this question is required I have not made a bale of cardboard. One bale. Two bales. Three bales. More than three bales. 10 Which tasks have you performed related to baling? Answer to this question is required Preparing materials to be baled Loading materials into a baler Determining when there was enough material to make a bale Securing a bale with wire or plastic Removing bales from a baler Weighing bales Scheduling maintenance or repairs on a baling machine None of the above 11 Which machines have you operated? Answer to this question is required Compactors Balers Shredders Grinders Granulators None of the above 12 Which equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Gaylords A hand jack Box cutters Wire cutters None of the above 13 Have you bound bales manually (using wire or plastic)? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with forklifts? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience with forklifts. I have observed others operating forklifts and understand how they work. I took a forklift training class but am not certified to operate a forklift. I have a forklift certification and/or have used a forklift to move objects. 15 In which settings have you operated a baling machine? Answer to this question is required At an office building or office complex In an industrial setting (manufacturing facility, recycling facility, etc.) At a school or hospital In a retail setting (grocery store, shopping outlet, etc.) In a residential setting (apartment complex, retirement home, etc.) At a restaurant or hotel None of the above 16 Which materials have you prepared for recycling or disposal using a baling machine? Answer to this question is required Cardboard Plastic bottles Aluminum cans Paper Textiles Foam Scrap metal None of the above 17 Which types of baling machines have you operated? Answer to this question is required Vertical balers Horizontal balers Low profile balers Mini balers (smaller than 36 inches) None of the above 18 Which tasks have you performed to make sure a forklift load does not exceed capacity? Answer to this question is required I have weighed loads. I have checked the weight of forklift. I have read forklift load capacity specifications. None of the above. 19 Have you checked to make sure large equipment (e.g., baling machine) was turned off before loading/unloading materials? Answer to this question is required Yes 19.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 20 This position involves very heavy physical effort in frequently lifting and moving objects weighing over 50 pounds. Are you able to lift over 50 pounds on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Yes 20.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 21 Which tasks have you performed to move items safely with a forklift? Answer to this question is required Balanced the load for even weight distribution Placed heavy items on the bottom of the stack Shrink wrapped the load Ensuring that forks are securely placed into the pallets None of the above 22 Which safety equipment have you worn while performing baling-related work? Answer to this question is required Safety glasses/googles Steel toe boots Work gloves Helmet/hard hat None of the above 23 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.