Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. I have a combination of graduate level education in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT have the experience or education described above. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Biological Sciences positions. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. Answer to this question is required I have completed requirements for bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college/university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 In addition to meeting the basic requirement, do you have experience in performing research in ecology and conservation biology. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience caring for wild or exotic animals in an AZA-accredited facility? Answer to this question is required I have experience caring for wild or exotic animals in an AZA-accredited facility. I have experience caring for wild or exotic animals in another setting. I have experience caring for other animals in another setting. I have experience caring for domestic animals in an AZA-accredited facility. I have experience caring for domestic animals in another setting. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience managing projects and/or contracts to develop, produce and maintain exhibits in a zoological park or similar setting? Answer to this question is required I have experience utilizing project management principles, practices and procedures to plan and manage production unit in a zoological park including experience with design, fabrication, implementation and management of public exhibits or specialized exhibits and programs. I have experience producing and maintaining interpretation signage throughout a Zoo or similar public setting. I have experience installing, setting up and using complex inter-actives, and devices (i.e. electronic, computer, mechanical) I have experience with reading, interpreting and reviewing architectural and exhibit drawings and specifications. I have experience solving problems where suitable precedents must be fitted to new situations or new technology, and also to solve problems for which there are no precedents. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following statements describes your work experience managing staff and schedules? Answer to this question is required I have worked with and assisted senior managers to coordinate staffing needs, schedules and records management. I have no experience managing staff and schedulin requests. I have experience in managing staff and utilizing time management tools as a supervisor I have experience working with organizing schedules. 7 Which of the following describes your experience leading, motivating, and training staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assigned work to staff for the completion of an assignment or project. I have evaluated the training needs of staff for growth and development. I have coached and mentored staff to increase effectiveness and moral. I have interviewed and hired staff to fill vacant positions. None of the above. 8 Do you have the ability to do the work of an experienced Animal Keeper by performing a full range of specialized duties that contribute to the proper veterinary medical care, feeding, housing, and training of zoo collection animals, and leads other staff to do the same? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting animal demonstrations or shows? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing AND presenting formal, scheduled animal demonstrations or shows at an animal facility. I have experience assisting with developing AND presenting formal, scheduled animal demonstrations or shows at an animal facility. I have experience presenting formal, scheduled animal demonstrations or shows at an animal facility. I have experience assisting with presenting formal, scheduled animal demonstrations or shows at an animal facility. None of the above. 10 How much experience do you have with the following task? Preparing technical documents (e.g., briefings, memoranda, reports) for the appropriate organization or general public relating to various programs. Answer to this question is required I have never done this task. I have done this task occasionally. I have been trained on this task, but have no job experience. I have done this task as part of my regular and recurring responsibilities. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing written forms of communication for others? Answer to this question is required I have prepared written forms of communication for university or non-profit President or CEO. I have prepared written forms of communication for local, state or federal government official. I have prepared written forms of communication for corporate CEO. I have prepared written forms of communication for public or private sector publication. I do not have experience preparing written forms of communication. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.