Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the answer choice that most accurately describes your level of experience in applying the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have read the AECA and ITAR, listened to presentations, or received formal training, but have not applied on the job. I have read the AECA and ITAR, listened to presentations, or received formal training and I have occasionally applied the law and regulations on the job in basic or non-complex situations. I have applied this knowledge independently and with authority on a regular and recurring basis to ensure compliance with or fulfillment of the legal and regulatory requirements. I have applied, interpreted, identified exceptions to, delivered presentations on the law and regulations or developed recommendations for modifying the AECA or ITAR. None of the above. 2 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on issues where there are conflicting positions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 3 Select the foreign affairs activities that you have performed: Answer to this question is required Prepared a white paper on a particular foreign affairs issue. Delivered a presentation on a foreign affairs issue at a government or industry meeting. Created and implemented an international business development strategy. Analyzed classified or unclassified intelligence reports. None of the above. 4 Which of the following activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Conduct Economic research Evaluation and interpretation of economic information Trade Policy Foreign Economic Policy Economics and/or International Development International Financial Affairs Intelligence analysis None of the above 5 Select the U.S. foreign affairs information sources with which you have interacted in dealing with export control issues: Answer to this question is required Department of Defense (DoD) Department of Commerce Department of State (DoS) Federal Law Enforcement Community (e.g., ICE, CBP, FBI, AUSA, ATF, OEE) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Department of Energy (DOE) Department of the Treasury Intelligence Community Foreign government officials and agencies Other None of the above 6 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams I have experience leading teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus I have experience leading teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group I have experience leading teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 7 Select the choices that describe work activities you have performed in project management: Answer to this question is required Managed a project (or significant portion) from its inception through completion. Conducted requirements analysis (e.g., defined project objectives, scope and deliverables; set goals, standards and methods to monitor progress). Developed action plans and milestones. Administered project (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and/or stakeholders. Implemented project plans including quality assurance processes, project documentation, and post project reviews and/or evaluations. Responded to evaluation and feedback concerning recommended changes and/or improvements. None of the above. 8 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience conceptualizing innovative solutions? Answer to this question is required I have experience and/or training in conceptualizing innovative solutions, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations. I have education and/or training in strategic planning and coordination, but have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 10 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedure, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.