Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Search System Records to Process Incomplete Receipts** Searched system records to process incomplete receipts and by doing so, 1) handled general mail and unidentifiable packages referred by technicians and supervisors, 2) reviewed incomplete packages, examined contents, and identified missing materials, 3) recognized characteristics and identifiers for all types of materials to determine required contents, 4) managed electronic records, and 5) conducted complex data searches to link and validate service requests, applications, and payments. Answer to this question is required Performed THREE (3) of the above to provide support to the office or agency. Performed FOUR (4) of the above to provide support to an office or agency. Performed ALL of the above to provide support to an office or agency. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of information retrieval principles as applied to copyright reference and search services.** Demonstrated knowledge of the information retrieval principles applied to copyright reference and search services in order to establish, maintain and control reference indices and collections; to conduct searches of manual and automated copyright records; to report on copyright facts of registrations and recordation's; and to assist the public in using the records of the copyright office. Answer to this question is required Independently searched, retrieved, analyzed and processed copyright reference and file materials following standard operating procedures for a variety of materials. Conducted and/or provided direction for general and difficult service requests. Identified information needs; gathered information from several sources; organized and maintained moderately complex information using general guidelines or precedents. Utilized a library’s many catalogs and retrieval tools to report on copyright facts registrations and recordation's and to assist the public in using copyright records. Independently searched, retrieved, analyzed and processed reference and file materials following standard operating procedures for a variety of materials. Conducted and/or provided direction for general and moderately difficult service requests. Utilized a library’s many catalogs and retrieval tools to physically locate materials in library collections. With minimal supervision, searched, retrieved, analyzed and processed reference and file materials following standard operating procedures for a variety of materials. Conducted and/or provided direction for general and moderately difficult service requests. Utilized a library’s catalogs and retrieval tools to locate materials in library collections. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of library or copyright processes and procedures.** Applied knowledge of library or copyright processes and procedures to acquire, organize, preserve, access, circulate, or dispose of materials. Demonstrated knowledge of library processes by: 1) promptly processing claims requiring special handling, 2) maintaining knowledge of registration requirements, 3) handling inaccurate or incomplete requests, 4) resolving difficult special search requests and/or complex inquiries, 5) conducting system searches for copyright applications, payments, and/or deposits, 6) using printed and electronic catalogs to determine the accuracy of information, 7) gathering information via oral and written contacts to ensure accurate and necessary information, and 8) Preparing written correspondence to requestors related to the availability of item(s) requested, copyright registration materials, and/or incomplete claims and/or insufficient funds. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated knowledge of library or Copyright processes and procedures by performing ALL of the above. Demonstrated knowledge of library or Copyright processes and procedures by performing FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. Demonstrated knowledge of library or Copyright processes and procedures by performing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained relationships among a variety of stakeholders (e.g. co-workers, supervisors/managers, vendors, clients, customers) regarding the work. Answer to this question is required Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff and the public. Independently and actively collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff and the public. With minimal supervision, actively collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors and staff. With minimal supervision, actively collaborated primarily with internal stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote or prepared materials such as 1) administrative memos, emails and other correspondence, 2) performance reviews and plans, 3) work processes and procedures, and 4) reports containing recommendations to improve operational efficiency. Answer to this question is required Routinely and independently drafted, reviewed, and edited ALL of the documents listed above for final distribution, ensuring all documents were clear, accurate, well-organized and consistent with the rules of spelling, grammar and punctuation. Routinely and with minimal supervision, drafted, reviewed and edited ALL of the documents listed above, ensuring all documents were clear, accurate, well-organized and consistent with the rules of spelling, grammar and punctuation. Occasionally and with minimal supervision, drafted, reviewed, and edited at least TWO of the documents listed above, ensuring all documents were clear, accurate, well-organized and consistent with the rules of spelling, grammar and punctuation. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).