Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one answer which best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the requirements for Ecologist positions. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree in biology or a related field of science underlying ecological research that included at least 30 semester hours in basic and applied biological sciences. These hours must have included at least 9 semester hours in ecology, and 12 semester hours in physical and mathematical sciences. I do not meet the requirement described above. 2 Which of the following describes your experience developing and implementing research in population dynamics and community ecology? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in long-term monitoring of soft-bottom invertebrates in estuaries. I have experience in long-term monitoring of estuarine or nearshore marine fishes. I have experience in sampling of feeding ecology of estuarine or marine fish or crustaceans. I have experience in measuring movement of decapod crustaceans. I have experience in measuring movement and migration of estuarine and marine fish. I have experience in measuring effects of management and conservation strategies for fisheries. I have not developed or implemented a research program in any of the project areas listed above. 3 What is the number of peer-reviewed journal publications on ecology of fish and invertebrates in estuaries and near-shore marine ecosystems on which you have been a primary author? Answer to this question is required 1-2. 3-5. 5-10. More than 10. I have no relevant publications in which I am the primary author. 4 What is the number of presentations you have made at professional meetings on fish and invertebrates in estuaries and near-shore marine ecosystems? Answer to this question is required 1-2. 3-5. 5-10. More than 10. I have not made any presentations on ecosystem conservation at a professional meeting. 5 In the last five years, from which of the following types of sponsors have you received extramural research support and served as the lead Principal Investigator or Co-Principal Investigator for developing and implementing research in the population and community ecology of estuarine/marine fish and invertebrates?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal governmental agencies. State or local government entities. Non-governmental organizations. Corporations or business enterprises. Foundations (including corporate foundations). Other. I have not received extramural research support for research in preserving and restoring ecosystem functions and biodiversity in the last five years. 6 In the last five years, what is the value of the extramural support you have received as a lead Principal investigator or Co- Principal Investigator for developing and implementing research in preserving and restoring ecosystem functions and biodiversity? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Less than $500,000. $500,000 – $750,000. $750,000 - $1,000,000. Greater than $1,000,000. I have not received extramural research support for research in preserving and restoring ecosystem functions and biodiversity in the last five years. 7 Which of the following types of professional service have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed professional journal manuscripts. I have reviewed research grant proposals. I have served on external advisory or review panels. I have served in a leadership role for one or more professional associations or journals. I have not performed any of the professional services listed above. 8 Which of the following academic advising roles have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as an academic advisor to undergraduate students. I have mentored undergraduate or graduate interns in a research environment. I have advised or co-advised one or more candidates for a Masters of Science degree in an area of ecological science. I have advised or co-advised one or more candidates for a PhD in an area of ecological science. I have advised post-doctoral researchers in estuarine and marine ecology. I have not served in an academic advising role. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.