Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in resource management? Answer to this question is required I have education, but no specific experience in this area I have been responsible for providing input into at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) I have been responsible for at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) for an organization, sub-unit, or program I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for a major sub-component (i.e., project or recurring task) I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for an organization (or sub-unit) or program None of the above 2 Please indicate which of the following type(s) of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of strategic and tactical planning for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a strategic and tactical plan. Developed and presented a strategic and tactical plan with supporting justifications. Engaged in the strategic / tactical planning process. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a strategic and tactical plan. Applied organizational analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic / tactical decisions. Used white papers and publications for developing strategic and tactical planning. None of the above. 3 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 4 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to troubleshoot, identify problems, gather and interpret related data, draw conclusions, and devlop solutions related to the operation of information data systems: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience planning and implementing new or major HR automation initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 6 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 7 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience managing or directing a large complex automated system or program: Answer to this question is required I have participated with others in managing the operations of a small automated system or program for an office. I have been responsible for managing the operations of an automated system or program for an office or agency. I have assisted in managing the operations of a large and complex automated system or program for an agency, bureau or component. I have independently managed or directed the operations of a large and complex automated system or program for an agency, bureau or component. I have little or no work experience with managing or directing the operations of an automated system or program. 8 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 9 Please indicate which of the following BEST describes your experience planning and organizing work to achieve goals of a program or organization: Answer to this question is required I have planned, developed and implemented programs with organizational scope and impact; managing work teams and/or advisory groups in the overall design of systems and programs. I have established annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans for an organizational component; setting goals and objectives; planning for short and long term resource needs. I have set goals and/or planned work to be accomplished by others; set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have planned and organized my own work assignments against deadlines assigned by my supervisor; often handlilng several work assignments at the same time. None of the above. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience communicating with management, staff, users, and partners in order to plan, develop, and implement information technology projects? Answer to this question is required Experience articulating complex policy and technical issues to organization executives and managers and communicating on a frequent basis with stakeholders from a variety of backgrounds and organizational cultures to plan, develop, and implement digital library projects. Experience communicating on a frequent basis with stakeholders from a variety of backgrounds and organizational cultures to implement digital library projects. Experience communicating on a frequent basis with stakeholders from a variety of backgrounds and organizational cultures to implement information technology projects. None of the above. 11 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to review new personnel regulations and legislation to ascertain the effect on HR system requirements and identify requirements, which may require adaptation to the automated personnel systems: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 13 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to analyze quality control using queries; reject listings, and database reconcilliations to identify trends, patterns, and/or problems: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to conduct analysis of user needs, develop requirements, and develop systems or system modifications to meet these needs: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience administering, maintaining and/or enhancing an automated human resource system? Answer to this question is required Applied advanced HR principles, concepts, methods, and practices to plan and deliver large-scale HR information system(s) services, such as those used agency-wide. Served as a technical support specialist, developing project plans to resource, design, develop, test, integrate, implement, and maintain proposed system improvements and enhancements. Identified areas where automation eliminated labor-intensive HR manual systems and/or to implemented system changes that enhanced current automation processes. Managed special projects having significant impact on the delivery of customer support services. Planned and coordinated actions with interagency groups to ensure an integrated response to complex problems. None of the above. 16 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to use new technology to enhance human resources processes. Answer to this question is required I have developed appropriate analytical tools and devices to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of human resources workflow processes. I have ensured the efficient and cost-effective development and utilization of management information systems and other technological resources that meet the organizations needs. I have ensured best practices are being utilized in the human resources area by working with functional area experts on researching workflow, business processes, systems, technologies, methodologies or other practices. I have recommended opportunities for reengineering human resources processes or automating functions in order to improve services or reduce costs. None of the above. 17 From the list below, identify all of the type(s) of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.