Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Materials Handler without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have a valid state or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have the ability to lift 50 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following task(s) have you performed working in a warehouse-type environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Unloading/loading trucks vehicles Monitoring deliveries Logging and tracking deliveries Operating and maintaining equipment Cleaning and maintaining equipment Operating hydraulic lift Operating fork lift Operating power jack Stacking heavy and large boxes/cartons Utilizing equipment to unload items less than 5,000lbs Maintaining and storing hazardous material I have not done any of the above tasks 5 Which of the following indoor/outdoor, warehouse and/or loading dock tasks do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Opening crates and boxes. Cleaning and removing debris from exterior areas. Removing snow and ice from sidewalks, steps, driveways and parking areas. Moving furniture and/or equipment. Loading and unloading debris, trash, equipment, supplies, packages and other materials. Arranging and lifting very large and unusually heavy materials and collections. Maintain material stock and supplies. None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your training and/or experience working within the shipping/receiving functions? Answer to this question is required I work independently to perform the following duties: inspect shipments, schedule and track jobs, make shipments and deliveries, load and unload trucks, transport cargo, and control loading dock traffic. I perform the following duties: inspect shipments, schedule and track jobs, make shipments and deliveries, load and unload trucks, transport cargo, and control loading dock traffic (under close supervision). I have transported cargo and loaded and unloaded cargo. I have inspected shipments for damages, hazards, and accuracy. Although I have no experience I have training in inspecting shipments, scheduling and tracking jobs, making shipments and deliveries, loading and unloading trucks, transporting cargo, and controlling loading dock traffic. I have not inspected shipments, scheduled and tracked jobs, made shipments and deliveries, loaded and unloaded trucks, transported cargo, and controlled loading dock traffic. 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of practices related to screening packages and identifying hazardous materials? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have performed this task on the job under close supervision. I have minimal experience in performing this task. I have no experience in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience performing warehouse operation? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision. I have minimal experience in performing this task. I have no experience in performing this task. 9 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required E-mail. Word processing. Spreadsheets. Databases. Automated building management systems. Internet search engines. AutoCAD. None of the above. 10 Do you have experience utilizing work order and other written documents to perform maintenance work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following methods have you used to receive instructions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required E-mails. Work orders/tickets. Emergency phone requests. Supervisor requests/assignments. Scheduled routine assignments. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I read and interpret instructions, specifications, and directions. I carry out instructions which involve decisions based on pre-established guidelines. I carry out instructions to perform simple tasks that require several steps. I ask clarifying questions when instructions or directions are unclear. I can follow written directions given by a supervisor or manager on work procedures or processes. I can complete and understand routine paperwork in order to carry through work assignments such as completing or verifying standard or inventory forms legibly. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following materials do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tide strap. Shrink wrap. Pallets. Padding. Cleaning compound. Cardboard boxes. Crates. Storage bins. None of the above. 14 Which of the following describes your experience in using and maintaining non-motor vehicle equipment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have operated a vacuum Billy Goat. I have operated dollies. I have operated hand trucks. I have operated electric and manual power jacks. I have operated grounds equipment (shovels, back pack blower, pressure washer, etc). I have operated non-motor snow removal equipment (shovel, snow thrower, salt spreader, etc). None of the above. 15 Which of the following motor vehicle equipment have you inspected? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Motor vehicle fluids. Tire pressure/ Lights. Horn/alarm. Seatbelt(s). Brakes. Forks/mass. Damage. Batteries. None of the above. 16 Which of the following training have you received in safety practices? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Proper set-up/Cleanup methods. Chemical handling procedures and equipment operation and maintenance, Blood-borne pathogens standards. Job hazard analysis (JHA). Material safety data sheet (MSDS). Personal protective equipment (PPE). Hand and power tools training. Hazardous waste disposal. None of the above. 17 Which of the following Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have you used? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gloves. Ear plugs. Safety glasses/goggles. Safety shoes. Hard hats. Aprons. Fall protection equipment (i.e., harness). None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.