Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Yes No 4 Please identify all of the following that describes your skills and knowledge in intelligence analysis: Answer to this question is required I have a comprehensive knowledge of an intelligence program as it relates to U.S. national intelligence. I have general knowledge of the intelligence programs of the U.S. Intelligence Community. I have subject-matter expertise in a functional or geographic area relating to intelligence issues. I have the ability to present and argue a position of an intelligence issue. None of the above. 5 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 6 From the following list, please indicate the activities to which you have applied all-source intelligence analysis. Answer to this question is required Implementing Intelligence Community (IC) Directives (ICDs) regarding analytical products Exchanging analytic information, ideas, and opinions through classification-appropriate social media tools (e.g., Diplopedia, Intellipedia, Corridor, A-Space, Twitter) Service as primary drafter / creator on all-source intelligence assessments and other analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on briefings Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic briefings Publishing of your analytic product(s) by an agency in the US Intelligence Community (IC), such as the Director of National Intelligence's National Intelligence Council (NIC) or the President's daily Briefing Book (PDB) None of the above 7 Which of the following choices BEST reflect your ability to make sound decisions related to the gathering and dissemination of intelligence information; develop alternative solutions to problems; evaluate alternatives, and identify possible risks? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 8 From the choices below, select all those that apply to you regarding your skills in accessing, evaluating, identifying and/or corroborating data: Answer to this question is required I have substantial knowledge and skills in accessing data from a wide variety of sources. I have skill in evaluating sources and data for relevance and value. I have skill in identifying intelligence gaps and sources to fill these gaps. I have skill in corroborating source information. None of the above. 9 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 10 Which of the following analytical techniques have you mastered? Answer to this question is required Determining and communicating trends and patterns. Filling gaps in information and project events. Developing alternative analyses. Applying statistical and modeling techniques to complex issues. Identifying anomalies. Ascribing meaning to events or information from disparate sources. Developing defensible judgments and conclusions based on accepted research and analytical methodologies. Accurately describing events. None of the above. 11 From the following choices, identify the types of oral communications in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Briefing papers Briefing superiors / supervisors Briefing decision-makers Communicating with hostile persons or groups Persuading or recommending action Instructing, teaching Participating in team exercises Briefing large groups (more than 30 participants) Explaining abstract concepts Providing guidance to subordinates Briefing small groups (less than 15 participants) None of the above 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience communicating persuasively? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 13 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 14 Which of the following U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) finished analytic products have you drafted and/or coordinated? Answer to this question is required President`s Daily Brief (PDB) articles, memos, and/or notes. National Intelligence Council (NIC) products. National Counter-terrorism and Terrorism Center products. I have coordinated but not written products for the U.S. Intelligence Community. I have written but not coordinated products for the U.S. Intelligence Community. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.