Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of emergency management policy.** Applied knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of federal policies related to emergency management policy. This includes a general understanding of aspects of emergency management policy, including the history, trends, and current status of emergency management policy and interrelationships with other key disciplines including risk management, hazard mitigation, or national preparedness. Answer to this question is required Have knowledge of emergency management policy as demonstrated by completion of a master’s or equivalent academic program in for example, public policy, sociology, economics, or other social science. In addition, have SOME APPLIED EXPERIENCE related to emergency management policy issues and INDEPENDENTLY conducted research resulting in published research as a PRINCIPAL AUTHOR in a peer-reviewed professional journal on emergency management policy; or has equivalent experience. Have knowledge of emergency management policy as demonstrated by completion of a master’s or equivalent academic program in for example, public policy, sociology, economics, or other social science. In addition, ASSISTED with research and served as a CONTRIBUTING AUTHOR to published research in a peer-reviewed professional journal on emergency management policy; or has equivalent work experience. Have knowledge of emergency management policy as demonstrated by, for example, completion of a master’s or equivalent academic program in public policy, sociology, economics, or other social science. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to design and utilize research and analytical methods and techniques.** Applied knowledge of federal policies related to emergency management policy. This includes the ability to conceptualize and define public policy problems, analyze and synthesize information and research, identify implications of data and draw appropriate conclusions, generate and assess alternatives, and evaluate the consequences of choosing each alternative. This also includes understanding the big picture and the inter-relationships of all aspects of the emergency management policy. Answer to this question is required ROUTINELY applied knowledge, skill, training and/or project work experience in emergency management policy to the analysis of moderately complex issues, applying quantitative and/or qualitative research methods. Assisted with original, comprehensive, and moderately complex analyses with implications on a regional (or equivalent) level. OCCASIONALLY applied knowledge, skill, training and/or project work experience in emergency management policy, to the analysis of moderately complex issues, applying quantitative and/or qualitative research methods. Assisted with analyses of limited complexity whose implications were on a regional (or equivalent) level. Applied knowledge, skill, training and/or project work experience in emergency management policy, to the analysis of issues of limited complexity, applying quantitative and/or qualitative research methods. Assisted with analyses of limited complexity whose implications were on an organizational (or equivalent) level. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to write on issues related to federal emergency management policy.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, and well-organized products on issues related to emergency management policy in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Answer to this question is required Prepared more than one comprehensive analysis of an issue related to emergency management policy to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review. Prepared at least one comprehensive analysis of an issue related to emergency management policy to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review. Wrote descriptive or background material for the purpose of clarifying situations or issues in an academic or office context that was not disseminated to a broader audience. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to convey analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to emergency management. This includes targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Occasionally presented in a public policy context, analysis of TECHNICAL/COMPLEX issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples included serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops; serving as a teaching assistant in a university; or equivalent experience. Occasionally presented in a public policy context, analysis of LIMITED SCOPE AND COMPLEXITY to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples included serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops or equivalent experience. Presented information or research findings in a structured setting to professionals or peers. Examples included providing oral responses to specific informational requests; presenting research findings to peers, defending a master’s thesis or equivalent experience. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).