Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Masonry without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following masonry skills do you have working knowledge and experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Laying stone Brick laying Block laying Concrete finishing Tuck-pointing Setting tile Plaster/drywall work and repair Stucco None of the above 3 Which of the following responses best describe your highest level of experience working in the masonry trade? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have installed and performed repairs on masonry structures with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in installing and repairing masonry structures. I have independently installed and repaired masonry structures. I have no experience installing and/or repairing masonry. I have overseen and monitored the work of others installing and repairing masonry structures. I have led the work of others installing and repairing masonry structures. 4 Which of the following best describe your repairing/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in repairing/renovation construction. I have assisted others in performing repairing/renovation duties in the construction field. I have independently performed repairing/renovation duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job. I have performed repairing/renovation duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. 5 Which of the following best describes your highest level of masonry knowledge and experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training None of the above 6 Which of the following types of drawings do you have working knowledge and experience in using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Building plans Blueprints As-Built drawings Architectural drawings Sketches None of the above 7 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Spreadsheets Internet Search Engines Word Processing Databases AutoCAD None of the above 8 Which of the following measuring and layout instruments are you most experience utilizing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Line level Laser level Coursing rule Line blocks/Masonry pins Masons level Transits Builders level Plumb bob Water level None of the above 9 Which of the following masonry tools are you most experienced with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Hand tools (Strikers, brick hammer, brick trowels) Finishing tools (floats, finishing trowels, screeds) Power tools (hammer drill, chipping hammer, mechanical mixers) Masonry saws (Block and tile saws) Grinders and polishing tools None of the above 10 Do you have experience erecting scaffolding systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following masonry materials are you most experienced with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Stone Brick Block Granite Concrete Glass block Stucco None of the above 12 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience performing masonry construction, repair and maintenance. Answer to this question is required I have constructed, repaired and performed maintenance on masonry structures with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in constructing, repairing and maintaining masonry structures. I have independently constructed, repaired and maintained masonry structures. I have no experience constructing, repairing and performing maintenance on masonry structures. I have overseen and monitored the work of others constructing, repairing and maintaining masonry structures. I have led the work of others constructing, repairing and maintaining masonry structures. 13 Which of the following types of personal protective equipment have you utilized in the trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Eye Protection (safety glasses, goggles, face shields) Hearing Protection (ear plugs, earmuffs) Hard Hats Safety Shoes / Boots Harnesses Gloves Respirators / Face Masks None of the above 14 Which of the following responses identifies the minimum height requirement for safety rails on scaffolding? Answer to this question is required 4 ft 6ft 8ft 10 ft 12 ft Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.