Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience organizing and managing&nbsp;paleontological collections&nbsp;for a museum, scientific or educational organization? (Select only one answer.)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience organizing and managing a paleontological collection for a museum, scientific or educational organization including experience in field, laboratory, and museum settings collecting, preparing, conserving, specimen cataloging and/or documentation, and organizing collections and participating in exhibits or public-facing laboratory programs. I have some experience organizing and managing a paleontological collection for a museum, scientific or educational organization including experience in field, laboratory, and museum settings collecting, preparing, conserving, specimen cataloging and/or documentation, and organizing collections and participating in exhibits or public-facing laboratory programs. I have limited experience organizing and managing a paleontological collection for a museum, scientific or educational organization including experience in field, laboratory, and museum settings collecting, preparing, conserving, specimen cataloging and/or documentation, or organizing collections and participating in exhibits or public-facing laboratory programs. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describes the types of experience you have&nbsp;in&nbsp;collections&nbsp;management&nbsp;tasks that&nbsp;inform&nbsp;optimal&nbsp;standards for&nbsp;collections&nbsp;stewardship?&nbsp;(Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have led and/or designed collections documentation projects (e.g. inventories, cataloging, collections histories) I have written and/or designed collections assessment reports, including analysis of current collections state and recommendations/requirements for improvement. I am an advanced user of a collections information system and have experience in completing data entry tasks, enhancing collections data for improved discovery and access, and developing guidelines for collections information management. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising a collections management staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising and training full-time collections management personnel engaged in acquiring, managing, and providing access to collections and collections-based research results, and I have established performance standards and performance plans and had formal performance evaluation responsibilities. I have experience as a work leader for teams or groups of collections management personnel, but have had no formal responsibility for performance evaluation. I have assisted in training new employees, interns, or volunteers. I have attended training courses in supervision or leadership. None of the above. 7 Which of the following described your experience working with&nbsp;different groups&nbsp;that may contribute to collections management responsibilities.&nbsp;(Check all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience managing employees who work in collections management on a daily basis. I have experience managing volunteers supporting collections management projects. I have experience interacting with researchers to facilitate collections management tasks and curation decisions. I have experience managing contractors supporting collections management projects. I have no experience working with collections staff or interacting with researchers or volunteers. 8 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally with subject matter specialists external to the organization (e.g. external to a museum)?&nbsp; (Select all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed formal oral presentations or presented formal plans on collections matters at other museums, scientific organizations, government agencies or educational institutions. I have presented tours of the organization’s collections to external subject matter specialists. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally with subject matter specialists internal to the organization (e.g. internal to a museum)? (Select all that apply).&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have developed formal oral presentations or presented formal plans on collections matters internally. I have provided advice to the museum or organizational community on a regular basis about collection holdings, curatorial procedures, archival materials and loan requests. I have assisted visiting researchers on collection arrangement, proper handling of specimens, or use of an organization’s Collections library. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience with contract management?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared purchasing documents. I have prepared grant applications. I have prepared statements of work. I have negotiated budgets and contract requirements with external contractors. I have managed contractors to ensure that they fulfill the requirements of the task orders. None of the above. 11 Which of the following describes the types of experience you have in supporting collection acquisitions and loan processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared acquisition justifications. I have assisted in the preparation of acquisition justifications I have conducted research on potential acquisitions and/or loans. I have communicated with vendors (galleries, auction houses, dealers, artists, private sales representatives). I have created and/or maintained curatorial, donor, vendor, and loan files. I have processed acquisition paperwork. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items. I have education or training interpreting laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have interpreted laws, rules and regulations regarding retention, shipment, acquisition, and de-accessioning of collection items as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.