Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [548] You must meet the minimum basic educational/experience requirements for professional accounting positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background for an accounting position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination. I have earned a Bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or a combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours) plus (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing; and (b) a panel of at least 2 professional accountants have determined that I possess the required professional accounting knowledge, skills and abilities. I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and experience under any of the choices above. 3 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 [74932] In 500 words or less, please explain describe how your education leading to your PhD has provided you with foundational accounting knowledge as it relates to performing a variety of accounting duties, utilizing professional knowledge of accounting principles and procedures. Maximum length of 2000 characters. 3.2 [74933] In 500 words or less, please explain describe how your education leading to your PhD has prepared you to perform technical tasks, such as developing segments of surveys and systems for gathering and analyzing data, resolving accounting discrepancies&nbsp;in reported data. Maximum length of 2000 characters. 3.3 [74895] In 500 words are less, please describe your experience&nbsp; performing complex financial reconciliations, such as reconciling cash, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and other general ledger accounts. In your response, provide a specific example of how you identified and resolved discrepancies between subsidiary ledger balances and control account balances. Additionally, explain how you have applied your knowledge of Federal appropriations law and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to navigate or resolve complex accounting problems in a professional setting. Maximum length of 3500 characters. &nbsp; &nbsp; 3.4 [74896] In 500 words are less, please describe your experience conducting financial analyses, audits, or investigations of business entities. Detail how you have gathered, reviewed, and validated financial data to resolve reporting discrepancies. Furthermore, describe a situation where you were required to provide financial guidance or recommend alternative solutions to program officials to help them resolve difficult financial challenges. Explain your role in the process, and the outcome of your recommendations. Maximum length of 3500 characters. &nbsp; &nbsp; 3.5 [74897] In 500 words are less, please describe your experience in developing or implementing segments of an automated accounting system. Explain your contribution to the establishment or modification of policies and procedures to improve financial reporting or data gathering. Provide an example of a time you identified an inefficiency or a problem within an existing accounting system and the specific steps you took to recommend and implement a solution. Maximum length of 3500 characters. &nbsp; &nbsp; No Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [548] You must meet the minimum basic educational/experience requirements for professional accounting positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background for an accounting position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination. I have earned a Bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or a combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours) plus (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing; and (b) a panel of at least 2 professional accountants have determined that I possess the required professional accounting knowledge, skills and abilities. I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and experience under any of the choices above. 3 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 [74570] In 500 words or less, please describe a time when you independently managed or led a complex, multi-tiered reconciliation of financial records. Specifically, detail how you addressed systemic ledger discrepancies, corrected balance variances between subsidiary ledgers and&nbsp;control accounts, or adapted internal controls to meet updated Treasury Financial or OMB standards. Include your quantified efficiency or success rate in&nbsp;resolving these variances. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [74571] In 500 words or less, please describe a specific example of a full-scale financial investigation, audit, or compliance review you&nbsp;conducted. Detail how you validated routine industry data, managed complex or&nbsp;conflicting data structures, designed custom data gathering systems, and successfully&nbsp;resolved major reporting discrepancies. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [74572] In 500 words or less, please describe a situation where you&nbsp;formulated high-level financial reports and provided strategic alternatives to advise senior executives or program officials. Detail your role in the design, testing, or implementation of automated accounting system modules and explain how you utilized this experience to recommend process improvements or organization-wide policy modifications. Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [548] You must meet the minimum basic educational/experience requirements for professional accounting positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/experience background for an accounting position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination. I have earned a Bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or a combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours) plus (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing; and (b) a panel of at least 2 professional accountants have determined that I possess the required professional accounting knowledge, skills and abilities. I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and experience under any of the choices above. 3 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 [74573] In 500 words or less, please describe your professional experience designing, implementing, developing,&nbsp;and maintaining complex operating accounting systems. Detail a specific instance where you&nbsp;reviewed legislation or regulations to determine a system&amp;#39;s adequacy, developed system&nbsp;improvements, and authored the corresponding procedural manuals, methods, or guidelines&nbsp;for program users. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.2 [74574] In 500 words or less, please describe your experience planning and executing financial analyses, forensic&nbsp;audits, or complex investigations of major domestic and/or foreign business entities. In your&nbsp;response, explain a specific example where you developed survey instruments or data-&nbsp;collection systems to gather, analyze, and validate complex industry financial data, including&nbsp;how you resolved critical accounting discrepancies in the reported data. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 3.3 [74575] In 500 words or less, please describe your experience providing expert accounting advice, developing&nbsp;internal control programs, and establishing policies to resolve highly unusual or difficult&nbsp;operations problems. Provide a specific example of an independent study or special project you&nbsp;conducted that required you to evaluate control program effectiveness, identify structural&nbsp;vulnerabilities, and issue strategic solutions or directives to financial and program managers. Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [74921] Does your resume include specific information regarding employment, beginning and ending dates for each position listed, whether employment is Full-time or Part-time, average number of hours worked per week, and position titles? FAILURE TO PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION IN YOUR RESUME BY THE CLOSING DATE OF THE VACANCY WILL RESULT IN YOUR REMOVAL FROM CONSIDERATION. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. Answer to this question is required I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 8 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 11 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 12 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 13 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 14 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 15 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 16 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 17 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 18 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 18.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 18.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 18.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).