Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of cataloging rules, practices, and procedures.** Used knowledge of cataloging rules, practices, and procedures to perform library functions in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in cataloging rules, practices and procedures, as well as a broad knowledge of a full range of cataloging activities, such as the following: recommended changes to policies and procedures; and demonstrated experience in resolving challenging cataloging problems or issues, among other related activities. Demonstrated experience in cataloging rules, practices and procedures, as well as demonstrated experience in resolving routine cataloging problems or issues. Demonstrated knowledge or college-level proficiency in library cataloging rules, practices and procedures. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to organize, analyze, and interpret data related to cataloging library materials.** Organized, analyzed, and interpreted data to catalog library materials. Resolved issues related to these assignments. Answer to this question is required Independently organized and analyzed information and materials, as well as interpreted and processed data to ensure accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved issues related to these assignments. With minimal supervision, organized information and materials, as well as interpreted and processed data to ensure accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved problems and communicated results. Under close supervision, organized information and materials and/or interpreted and processed data to maintain accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved problems and communicated results. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of at least one of the following subject areas: Science, Medicine, Agriculture, or Technology.** Applied knowledge of at least one of the specified subject areas of Science, Medicine, Agriculture, or Technology to carry out library functions, process library materials, and identify bibliographic elements. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of ONE (1) OR MORE of the following subject areas: Science, Medicine, Agriculture or Technology to carry out library functions, process library materials, and identify bibliographic elements. Sought out by others for expertise in those areas in an academic, library or professional setting. Applied moderate knowledge of ONE (1) OR MORE of the following subject areas: Science, Medicine, Agriculture or Technology to carry out library functions, process library materials, and identify bibliographic elements. Collaborated with others in those areas in an academic, library or professional setting. Applied knowledge and/or college-level coursework pertaining to ONE (1) OR MORE of the following subject areas: Science, Medicine, Agriculture, or Technology to carry out library functions, process library materials, or identify bibliographic elements. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation and liaison services. Provided consultation or performed liaison duties to help solve technical problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and national and/or international partners, and provided specialized and/or technical information in the field of library cataloging, including participating in complex projects. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and provided specialized or technical information in the field of cataloging, including participating in moderately difficult projects. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and provided technical information in the field of cataloging, including participating in library projects. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Used integrated library systems and library technology to perform library functions in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge in integrated library systems and technologies to perform library cataloging functions. Demonstrated moderate knowledge in integrated library systems and technologies, including some more complex actions, to perform library cataloging functions. Demonstrated knowledge and/or college-level proficiency related to an integrated library systems and/technologies to perform library functions. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared a variety of written communications that reflected policies and practices concerning metadata, acquisitions, or other library topics. Examples include 1) reports, 2) published articles, 3) presentations, 4) procedural documents, 5) sections of a technical manual, 6) training documents, and 7) email correspondence. Answer to this question is required Frequently and independently prepared a variety of written communications such as reports, procedural documents, training materials, and technical correspondence that reflected policies and practices of an institution or significant division of an institution concerning metadata, or other library topics. Prepared written communications, such as reports, training materials, and email correspondence that were related to policies and practices of a working group or program that concerned metadata, or other library topics. Prepared written communications such as correspondence, reports, papers for a course or similar documents on various aspects of a program. None of the Above 14 In the box below, please describe how your education, experience and/or training demonstrate your knowledge of librarianship and information science, the use of emerging technologies, and your participation in teamwork. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).