Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information science principles, concepts, tools and techniques to perform library functions and carry out library programs. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library and information science applied to more than one major library function or program for a large or very specialized library environment or organization (e.g. cataloged items according to library standards; searched for items in library catalogs and electronic databases for purposes of acquisition or research; provided reference services including directing users to appropriate sources in other libraries and organizations). Demonstrated extensive knowledge of principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library science and information applied to one specialized library function or program (e.g. developed knowledge of terminology and research trends in a subject area and used relevant databases to provide reference services). Demonstrated knowledge of the principles, concepts, tools and techniques of library science applied to established library functions or programs (e.g. applied established practices and techniques to locate source material in response to reference questions). None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to organize and catalog foreign and domestic newspapers and other continuing resources.** Demonstrated experience and skills in the ability to catalog foreign and domestic newspapers and other continuing resources. This includes: (1) Creating and revising bibliographic, authority, and holdings records in support of preservation and access of materials; (2) Establishing and recommending names, uniform titles, and subject headings while ensuring compliance with national and international cataloging and metadata standards; and (3) Conducting research, resolving cataloging issues and inconsistencies, and serving as the primary authority for bibliographic and holdings control of the Library&rsquo;s newspaper collection. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expertise in independently executing ALL OF THE ABOVE TASKS to perform cataloging for foreign and domestic newspapers and continuing resources. Have expertise in Two (2) of the above to organize and catalog foreign and domestic newspaper and continuing resources. Has expertise in (1) of the above to organize and cataloging for foreign and domestic newspaper and continuing resources. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide training and technical guidance. Provided training and technical guidance to others regarding training projects and sessions. This includes performing the following activities: 1) developing and coordinating training materials, 2) presenting and conducting training, and 3) updating existing training materials to reflect new developments and modifications in policies and processes. Answer to this question is required Provided training to inform others about policies and procedures and in doing so, performed ALL of the activities listed above. Provided training to inform others about policies and procedures and in doing so, performed at least TWO (2) of the above activities. Provided training to inform others about policies and procedures and in doing so, performed at least ONE (1) of the above activities. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies. Utilized knowledge of trends in library and information science, integrated library systems and other emerging library technologies to execute library functions and provide customer service. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute significant library operations and programs (e.g. assisted in the implementation of an upgrade or new module to an integrated library system.) Applied a high level of knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute existing library operations and programs (e.g. improved upon existing library systems through the creation or application of new techniques or tools, such as the development of new macros to improve upon library functions or services.) Applied knowledge of basic integrated library systems and library technologies in existing library operations and programs (e.g. assisted patrons or staff with troubleshooting technological problems.) None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide reference and research services. Provided reference and research services by: (1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; (2) evaluating patrons&rsquo; requirements and developing search strategies; (3) identifying and evaluating authoritative data, statistics, and information; (4) evaluating international print and electronic resources for content coverage and trends; (5) monitoring library best practices; and (6) identifying emerging trends in digital scholarship. Answer to this question is required As a librarian, has extensive experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed at least FIVE of the above tasks, including (1) through (3). As a librarian has experience in providing reference and research services in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization, and in doing so, executed FOUR of the above tasks, including (1) through (3). Has experience providing reference and research services, and in doing so, executed (1) through (3) of the above tasks in a library, academic environment, information center, or research organization. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to provide consultation or liaison services. Provided consultation, performed liaison duties, and maintained work relationships to help solve problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange and provide information and knowledge to persons inside and outside of the organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with librarians, cooperative partners, and other specialists within and outside the organization in order to share resources and information in librarianship and other relevant fields for the purpose of professional development. Conducted tours, workshops, and/or orientation sessions for staff and visitors, and represented the organization at conferences, seminars, and/or exhibits. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues and cooperative partners within and outside the organization and provided specialized or technical reference information in librarianship and other relevant fields for the purpose of professional development. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, communicating specialized or technical reference information in a professional and/or an academic setting for the purpose of professional development. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).