Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Please select the areas in which you have experience developing foreign policy. Answer to this question is required Civil Society Organizations Democracy/Democratic Transitions Human Rights Religious Freedom Outreach None of the above 6 Please select the answer choice that BEST describes your level of experience in applying the reciprocity requirements of the Foreign Missions Act: Answer to this question is required I have read the Foreign Missions Act, listened to presentations, and/or received formal training, but have not applied this on the job. I have read the Foreign Missions Act, listened to presentations, and/or received formal training and I have occasionally applied the law and regulations on the job in basic or non-complex situations. I have applied this knowledge independently and with authority on a regular and recurring basis to ensure compliance with or fulfillment of the legal and regulatory requirements. I have applied, interpreted, identified exceptions to, delivered presentations on the law and regulations and/or developed recommendations for modifying the Foreign Missions Act. None of the above. 7 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 8 Select the response which best describes your ability to communicate with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained routine procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (eg. Staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained complex material and procedures that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 9 Which of the following leadership functions have you preformed in work units or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 10 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 11 Which of the following team leader functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a team leader for planning, organizing, and coordinating work tasks. I have experience as a team leader responsible for setting work priorities and defining critical work paths. I have never performed team leader functions. 12 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the list below, choose the statement that BEST describes your level of training and/or experience in administering the privileges and benefits defined by the Foreign Missions Act. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in administering the privileges and benefits provided by the Foreign Missions Act. I have education or training in administering the privileges and benefits provided by the Foreign Missions Act, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, usually under the guidance or review of a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have trained others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 6 Select the answer choice that most accurately describes your experience in applying the reciprocity requirements of the Foreign Missions Act (FMA) as it relates to motor vehicle services: Answer to this question is required I have read the FMA, listened to presentations, or received formal training, but have not applied them on the job. I have read the FMA, listened to presentations, or received formal training and I have occasionally applied the laws and regulations on the job in basic or non-complex situations. I have applied this knowledge independently and with authority on a regular and recurring basis to ensure compliance with or fulfillment of the legal and regulatory requirements. I have applied, interpreted, identified exceptions to, and delivered presentations on the laws and regulations or developed recommendations of modifying the FMA. None of the above. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization`s mission I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action None of the above 8 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Internal memorandum Publications Books Academic papers Journal articles Thesis Dissertation Assessments Newspaper articles None of the above 10 Select the one response which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above. 11 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 12 Which of the following describes your highest level of work experience in planning and coordination? Answer to this question is required I have managed the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have led the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations I have participated in the strategic planning and coordination of discrete projects or activities affecting management and operations Other planning and coordination experience No planning and coordination experience Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.