Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list of physical and industrial security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed: Answer to this question is required Dignitary Protection Force Protection High-threat Security Protective Liaison Guard Force Operations First responder / First Aid Chemical / Biological Response Physical Security Personnel Security Information Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security None of the above 4 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of applicable statutes and authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or knowledge of applicable statutes or authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted comprehensive and complex security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the handling, control, storage and safeguarding of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the construction of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF). I have processed, investigated and adjudicated security infractions and violations, including mishandling of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have developed methodology and procedures for establishing, operating and assessing the effectiveness of a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Security Program in accordance with Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations. 5 From the following list, please identify the sectors of the foreign affairs community with which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) National Security Agency (NSA) Department of Defense (DOD) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) National Security Council (NSC) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) International Organizations (IO) Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) United Nations (UN) Think Tanks None of the above 6 From the following list, select the choices that BEST demonstrate your knowledge of operational security procedures: Answer to this question is required Monitor document marking, control, and access procedures; and similar actions to limit access to classified or sensitive information. Establish and maintain security records. Brief employees and visitors on controls and restrictions associated with access to facilities and/or systems. Provide employees with computer logons based on established procedures. Establish and maintain control logs of combinations and door locks. Inform appropriate offices of departing employees to ensure that access to computer systems, databases and facilities are promptly disabled. Instruct others on the proper procedures for handling classified or sensitive but unclassified correspondence, documents and/or records. Instruct others on the proper procedures for the disposal of classified or sensitive but unclassified correspondence, documents and/or records. Apprise colleagues orally and in writing of changes to security procedures. Draft office procedures explaining administrative processes for specific security related matters. None of the above. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in day-to-day operations of records areas, facilities, internal equipment modernization, and security? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have worked in an environment comprising day-to-day-operations of the records area, facilities, internal equipment modernization, supply and information management, training, and security. I have managed an environment comprising day-to-day-operations of the records area, facilities, internal equipment modernization, supply and information management, training, and security. I have managed an environment comprising day-to-day-operations of the records area, facilities, internal equipment modernization, supply and information management, training, and security. This environment consists of both hardcopy and electronic operations. I have managed an environment comprising day-to-day-operations of the records area, facilities, internal equipment modernization, supply and information management, training, and security. This environment consists of both hardcopy and electronic operations and involves classified and unclassified information. 8 Select the tasks you have performed in inspecting, investigating, negotiating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance or enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of reported violations, policy exceptions, debarment decisions or other legal, regulatory or administrative actions. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Conducted onsite inspections, surveys or visits to assess compliance with laws, regulations or executive orders. Conducted investigations to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. Conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose activities have not been in compliance. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Reviewed and identified documents and other open source information sources to identify knowledge or information gaps to determine whether a violation has occurred. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of Department of State operations and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the Department of State`s operations or objectives. I have knowledge of the Department of State`s operations and objectives, but not through direct work experience. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my participation on an interagency group. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my work experience in a Government agency other than Department of State. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my work experience as a Department of State employee or contractor. 10 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 11 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 12 Which of the following most accurately and completely describes your knowledge and experience in conducting inspections involving special security needs? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge, training or experience conducting inspections involving special security needs. I have knowledge and/or awareness of, but no experience in conducting inspections involving special security needs. I have conducted inspections involving special security needs. I have coordinated recommendations with other agencies involving special security needs. I have proposed innovative solutions to mitigate life safety deficiencies involving special security needs. I have developed and implemented new policies and procedures to mitigate life safety deficiencies involving special security needs. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.