Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices BEST describe your experience applying administrative concepts, principles and practices? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and recommending changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices in the resolution of issues. I have independently conducted studies on operational issues and problems and identified issues for concern and recommended specific remedies. As a member of a team or working group, I have applied administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating specific problems areas that impact the efficiency of my organization. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the support staff of an organization. I have served on an agency / Department level team or working group that required me to apply administrative concepts, principles, and practices in evaluating and recommending remedies on a specific issue. None of the above. 2 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 3 Select the choice that most closely represents your experience in coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions: Answer to this question is required Handles routine actions on any given day. This is typically characterized by: maintaining subject matter files; screening and referring calls and visitors to appropriate subject matter personnel; duplicating documents; processing / delivering mail; preparing and processing travel orders and personnel actions; ordering supplies; and maintaining supervisor`s calendar. Handles multiple activities in assigned organization. This is characterized by: maintaining control of incoming correspondence, following up to ensure timely action; making travel arrangements and preparing itinerary; answering and referring calls; maintaining supervisor`s calendar; maintaining filing system; and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. Handles multiple activities in assigned organization. Managing the needs of multiple first-line supervisors. This is characterized by: maintaining control of incoming correspondence, directing correspondence to proper unit based on function, following up to ensure timely action; making travel arrangements and preparing itinerary for first-line supervisors; answering and referring calls; maintaining supervisor`s calendar; maintaining filing system; and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. Independently coordinates and directs the day-to-day activities of the office. This is characterized by: receiving and responding to a variety of calls; maintaining supervisor`s calendar; recommending and implementing new standard procedures; arranging meetings and conferences; designing / developing new filing systems; compiling and summarizing information from various sources; and planning and organizing the work of others. None of the above. 4 At what level have you organized planned and coordinated activities? Answer to this question is required Across organizations Organization-wide Major division Work unit None of the above 5 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience providing technical advice and guidance to managers, co-workers, headquarters staff and decision-makers on undefined issues and elements for programs critical to the agency`s mission? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 8 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. 9 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 10 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in conducting research and performing analytical tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Analyzed, and recommended alternative approaches to existing practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or programs. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedural reports, policies and/or programs. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted post-implementation reviews of program initiatives for efficient and economical operations and overall quality. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.