Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the answer that best describes your educational background. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background includes one of the following: 1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; 2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR 3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field. I do not possess the education or combination of education and experience as described above. 2 GS-14: Choose the answer that best describes your experience Answer to this question is required I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level. The qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1. Application of OMB Circular A-123, the annual statement of assurance process and conducting A-123 test of design and effectiveness assessments; 2. Developing policies, procedures, and strategies that advance the maturity of the internal control program; 3. Advising senior leadership on internal controls compliance; 4. Developing and/or performing organization wide risk assessments via communication with the agency organizational offices; AND 5. Application of Risk Management and identification of relevant risks for inclusion into an agency risk register. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select the financial cycles that you have audited for internal controls for financial reporting as an accountant or internal auditor at an agency, bureau or Department: Answer to this question is required Financial Statement Reporting Budget Operations Disbursements and Accounts Payable Fleet Management Fund Balance with Treasury General Support IT Systems Payroll Procurement Property Management Purchase Card Management Revenue and Accounts Receivable Travel Management Improper Payments None of the above 15 My writing experience includes the following: Answer to this question is required I have regularly prepared briefings, background documents, and other reports related to financial audits or A-123 assessments. I have regularly served as a subject matter expert for interpreting and drafting financial policies for the purpose of resolving specific financial management issues. I have regularly prepared written reports on financial management for internal controls such as audit reports, working papers, and management review reports. I have regularly prepared decision documents (including white papers) for senior managers that propose alternative courses of corrective actions, using persuasion and fact to overcome disagreement and reach consensus. None of the above. 16 I have experience utilizing the following automated software to enhance operational efficiencies (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Microsoft Teams Microsoft Power Apps SharePoint Other CoPilot, Claude, Gemini, ChatGPT None of the above. 17 Which audit or management review roles have you performed independently and with limited supervision? Answer to this question is required I have notified management of potentially controversial matters such as fraud or violations of laws. I have conducted reviews to determine the effectiveness of internal controls for financial reporting. I have conducted reviews to determine the effectiveness of internal controls for the risk of improper payments. I have reviewed information systems to determine whether financial records comply with applicable regulations. I have analyzed laws, regulations, policies, and procedures related to financial matters. I have made recommendations to enhance internal control structures. I have worked with data analytics to assess risks of misstatements to financial statements. None of the above. 18 Select the statements that describe your experience liaising with auditors: Answer to this question is required I have served as an audit liaison between my office and the Office of Inspector General. I have coordinated responses between my office and auditors (e.g., provided by client requests). I have interacted with managers and internal stakeholders to respond to audit Notice of Findings and Recommendations (NFRs). None of the above. 19 Which statement best describes your experience and level of responsibility as an auditor: Answer to this question is required I have worked as an auditor testing financial reporting internal controls. I have worked as a lead auditor with responsibility for aspects of the financial management internal control testing for an Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. I have worked as a lead auditor with overall responsibility for the annual audit or review of financial management internal control testing for an Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. None of the above. 20 Which statement describes your highest level of experience monitoring corrective actions resulting from audits or management reviews: Answer to this question is required I have monitored and provided corrective action reports to management for audits or management reviews conducted in my work unit. I have monitored and provided corrective action reports to management for audit or management reviews for my Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. I have worked with program offices to resolve corrective actions, monitored and provided corrective action reports to management for audit or management reviews for my Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. None of the above. 21 Describe your experience performing internal audits on operational programs, including assessing program design, implementation, effectiveness, and compliance with agency policies. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to operational program audits but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform them at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable operational audit situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of operational programs. I have assisted others in conducting program audits and seek guidance only in unusually complex or sensitive situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I regularly advise, mentor, or train others in performing internal audits of operational programs and am consulted by colleagues and/or supervisors on unusually complex or cross‑agency program audit matters. 22 Which statement best describes your experience with OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A, Internal Control for Financial Reporting review processes. Answer to this question is required I have worked as an independent auditor conducting internal control for financial reporting evaluations that support the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process for my Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. I have worked as the lead auditor conducting internal control for financial reporting evaluations that support the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process for my Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. I have worked as the lead auditor with overall responsibility for the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process, including preparation of the final report to management for my Office, Bureau, Agency, or Department. None of the above. 23 Which statement describes your highest level experience with the agency-head Statement of Assurance process that is published in the Agency Financial Report (AFR): Answer to this question is required I have reviewed internal controls for financial reporting as part of the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process that supports the level of assurance that the agency head provides in the Statement of Assurance. I have had lead responsibility for preparing and reporting on the results of the internal controls for financial reporting as part of the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process that supports the level of assurance that the agency head provides in the Statement of Assurance. I have analyzed the management report on internal controls for financial reporting as part of the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A process and prepared the corresponding agency-head Statement of Assurance. None of the above. 24 Select the statement that describes your highest level Contracting Officer Representative (COR) certification. Answer to this question is required Served as a COR without FAC-C or DoD-COR certification. Served as a COR with FAC-C or DoD-COR, Level 1 certification. Served as a COR with FAC-C or DoD-COR, Level 2 certification. Served as a COR with FAC-C or DoD-COR, Level 3 certification. None of the above. 25 Have you prepared materials and provided training (formal or informal) to other employees regarding OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A. Answer to this question is required Yes 25.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you performed the duties from the previous question. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 26 Describe your experience conducting risk assessments, to include identifying risks, evaluating their significance, and determining appropriate mitigation strategies. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 27 Identify your experience developing an agency Risk Register. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 28 Choose the statement(s) that best describes your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Brief senior executive leaders on financial management reviews and A-123 assessments. Demonstrate ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information achieve results and accomplish goals. None of the above. 29 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 31 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 32 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).