Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 11 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1712 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor?s or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject area related to the position to be filled. I have experience demonstrating a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples include: teaching/instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, etc.; supervising/administering a trng prgm; development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of trng results; work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position that required trng or instructing others. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of CPR and First Aid training courses? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge regarding CPR and First Aid training. I have participated in CPR and First Aid training and completed CPR instructor courses for certification. I have participated in CPR training as a student only. I have participated in First Aid training as a student only. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience working in a training department? Answer to this question is required I have worked in a training department and I am a certified instructor. I have served as an assistant to an instructor in a training department only. I have worked in a training department but have never worked as an instructor. I have no experience working in a training department. 5 Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of the position?&nbsp; For this position specialized experience is defined as providing supervision, management and direction of a staff involved in training and instructing staff; serves as a senior specialist, leading, designing and implementing leadership development programs; and provides advice and guidance on the development of&nbsp;training courses and materials. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following describes your knowledge and experience in developing training material? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience developing training materials. I have assisted in the preparation of class materials. I have given examinations to students and prepared test. I have completed responses to comments from students. I have developed training materials with supervisory direction. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience as an instructor? Answer to this question is required I have no experience as an instructor. I have completed courses work for an instructor’s position only. I have worked as an instructor in a security operations environment. I have worked as an assistant to an instructor. 8 Which of the following training courses have you completed? Answer to this question is required Introductory Supervision CPR & First Aid Train the Trainer Firearms Employee Assistance program Physical Search and Screening None of the above 9 Do you have experience conducting proficiency tests for classroom instruction? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in scheduling training requests for groups? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the scheduling of training requests for groups. I have independently scheduled training for groups of more than 10 students. I have independently scheduled training for groups of 10 students or less. I have no experience scheduling training for groups. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with software systems for scheduling training courses? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with software systems used for tracking and scheduling. I have experience using software systems for developing spreadsheets and scheduling training requests. I have experience using software systems for developing spreadsheets, coordinating, and requesting range reports for training. I have used software systems to assist in developing training requests. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience developing required training materials for federal workforce staff members? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task and am consulted by others to assist them in doing this task. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no experience developing required training materials. 13 Which of the following best describe your knowledge in teaching techniques for museum security to include various principles and concepts? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of teaching techniques for museum security officers. I have knowledge of teaching techniques in an educational institute. I have knowledge of teaching techniques for museum security officers to include various principles and concepts. I have knowledge of proper teaching techniques for museum security officers to include various principles and concepts; classroom practical instructions with a diverse student environment. 14 Do you have experience in developing classroom objectives and sequences for Security Officers? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following statements describes your work experience managing staff and schedules? Answer to this question is required I have worked with and assisted senior managers to coordinate staffing needs, schedules and records management. I have no experience managing staff and schedulin requests. I have experience in managing staff and utilizing time management tools as a supervisor I have experience working with organizing schedules. 16 Which of the following best describes your knowledge in scheduling training courses? Answer to this question is required I have assisted with the scheduling of courses on an occasional basis. I have scheduled courses for a minimum of six to ten students for one course. I have led the coordination of scheduling for multiple courses working with management. I have no experience scheduling training courses. 17 Which of the following statements describes your experience conducting audits, various inspections and reviews of daily staff work assignments? Answer to this question is required I have no experience managing daily work assignments for staff, conducting audits and performing various inspections. I have experience as a team lead conducting audits, inspections and daily reviews of staff work assignments. I have experience as a supervisor reviewing daily work requirements, performing various inspections and conducting audits of records. I have occasionally served in the capacity as an acting supervisor by reviewing daily work requirements, performing various inspections and conducting audits of records.. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.