Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following budget tasks have you performed for the production and installation of exhibits? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Estimating the labor and materials costs of the production and installation of an exhibition. Monitoring the labor and materials costs in the production and installation of an exhibition. Developing a scope of work for a particular element of an exhibit to request a bid from a vendor. Monitoring the labor OR material costs in the production and installation of an exhibition. Estimating labor or materials costs of the production and installation of an exhibition. Comparing estimates with final costs to analyze how estimates and actual differed. Estimating the labor and materials costs of the production and installation of an exhibition component. Monitoring the labor and materials cost of the production and installation of an exhibition component. I do not have experience performing this task. 3 Which of the following stages of exhibits development do you have experience performing in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Initial research including information, photographs and/or objects. Exhibition Design Final production of exhibitions Exhibit Development Exhibit installation & de-installation Monitoring expenses & budget limitations I do not have experience developing exhibitions as described above 4 Which of the following describes your experience overseeing the building of museum exhibits and ensuring exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design, and program goals are met. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing program and project design processes, production schedule and data, while consulting with informed individuals in project management field. I have experience attending a variety of meetings with the design, production, graphics, exhibits technology and services groups and leadership to coordinate all project plans, objectives and goals are on track to be met. I have experience performing quality reviews at regular intervals throughout the project to ensure exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design and program goals are on track to be met. I do not possess the experience described above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial reporting systems (e.g. Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Enterprise Resource Planning, Farsight)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 6 Which of the following best describes your level of experience as it relates to using qualitative and quantitative techniques for analyzing and measuring the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of administrative and technical programs? Answer to this question is required I have applied management analysis techniques, processes, and styles to conduct organization effectiveness studies to assist management (e.g., collect data through interviews, literature reviews, and document reviews; establish methods to analyze data and draw conclusions, write reports that reflect a thorough understanding of basic management improvement approaches, assist in studies using management analysis techniques, processes, and styles to improve organization effectiveness). I have assisted in the collection of data through various methods including interviews. I have applied established management analysis techniques, processes, and styles to analyze data and present facts (e.g., collect data through various methods including interviews, literature review, and document review; draft reports that reflect an understanding of basic management improvement approaches). None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience representing your office or organization to others within or outside your organization? Answer to this question is required I have responded to requests for technical scope information from my peers and colleagues. I have been the main liaison, point of contact and communication between my building project team and my clients or stakeholders. I have been responsible for resolving problems, relaying building project scope information, and interpreting building project scope procedures and requirement solutions within my project team and among stakeholders of the project. I have represented the interests and priorities of my office or organization in communications with outside organizations. I do not have experience representing my office or organization to others within or outside your organization. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, work schedules, material lists, and cost estimates Answer to this question is required I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, work schedules, material lists, and cost estimates. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, and work schedules, material lists. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates, and work schedules. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting including developing time estimates. I have experience in the planning and scheduling of work to be performed within an exhibits production shop or similar setting. I do not have related experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting surveys with stakeholders to gather requirement and scope data in support of construction cost estimating? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training conducting surveys with stakeholders to gather requirement and scope data in support of construction cost estimating. I have completed formal education or training in conducting surveys with stakeholders to gather requirement and scope data in support of construction cost estimating but have not performed this duty on the job. I have conducted requirement solution surveys and gathered scope data on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with procedures. I have independently conducted requirement solution surveys and gathered scope data as a regular part of a job usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have routinely conducting surveys with stakeholders to gather requirement and scope data in support of construction cost estimating as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience using web analytics and reporting tools to extract and analyze data, and communicating insights from the analyses? Answer to this question is required I have daily work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting in both technical reports and high-level summaries for non-technical staff. I have weekly work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting. I have monthly or less frequent work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following statement best reflect your experience collecting, preparing, and formatting data from personal research? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in collecting, preparing, and formatting data from personal research. I have completed formal education or training in collecting, preparing and formatting data from personal research, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have collected, prepared and formatted data from personal research on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have collected, prepared and formatted data from personal research as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have collected, prepared and formatted data from personal research as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing project tracking documentation and status updates for an exhibition fabrication department and other stakeholders ? (Select only one response) Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing written and software generated reports and documentation of decisions, schedules, budgets, meetings and discussions and briefing to supervisor or manager and other stakeholders. I have experience with project managements systems, milestones, tracking resources and scheduling that includes producing weekly reports for staff and contractor assignments. I do not possess the experience described above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.