Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your technical skills in the use of VectorWorks software? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled and fully competent in the use of all aspects of VectorWorks software. I am moderately skilled in the use of all aspects of VectorWorks software, or AutoCad. I have basic or entry-level skills in the use of all aspects of VectorWorks software, or AutoCad. I do not possess any skills in the use of VectorWorks software or AutoCad. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in the use of VectorWorks software in the creation of 3D exhibition designs, models, renderings, and construction document packages? Answer to this question is required I have successfully used VectorWorks software for the creation of 3D exhibition designs, models, renderings, and construction document packages for at least five exhibition projects. I have successfully used VectorWorks software or AutoCad for the creation of 3D exhibition designs, models, renderings, and construction document packages for at least three exhibition projects. I have successfully used VectorWorks software or AutoCad for the creation of 3D exhibition designs, models, renderings, and construction document packages for at least one exhibition project. I have never used VectorWorks software or AutoCad for the creation of 3D exhibition designs and construction document packages. 4 Which of the following best describes your technical skills and experience in the use of Apple Macintosh computer and Mac versions of all design-related software? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled and fully competent. I am moderately skilled. I have basic or entry-level skills. I do not possess any skills. 5 Which of the following best reflects your experience in serving as the lead 3D exhibit designer for exhibitions of at least 3,000 square feet each where your original ideas were incorporated into the final, produced exhibition ? Answer to this question is required I have served as the lead 3D exhibit designer for at least five exhibition projects of at least 4,000 square feet each where my original ideas formed all or a major portion of the final, produced exhibition. I have served as the lead 3D exhibit designer for at least three exhibition projects of at least 3,000 square feet where my original ideas formed all or a major portion of the final, produced exhibition. I have served as the lead 3D exhibit designer for at least one exhibition project of at least 3,000 square feet in size where my original ideas formed all or a major portion of the final, produced exhibition. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following types of exhibits do you have experience working on (at least one 3,000 square foot example as a 3D designer)? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required History/culture exhibits including historical artifacts and interactives. Art exhibits (paintings, photography, prints and drawings, sculpture, etc.) Natural history exhibits including specimens and interactives. Exhibits in two of the categories above. Exhibits in three of the categories above. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your skills and experience in creating complete , annotated 3D construction document bid packages for exhibition projects of at least 3,000 square feet in size? Answer to this question is required I have produced complete 3D construction document packages (as defined above) for at least five exhibition projects of at least 4,000 square feet each. I have produced complete 3D construction document packages (as defined above) for at least three exhibition projects of at least 3,000 square feet each. I have produced complete 3D construction document packages (as defined above) for at least one exhibition project of at least 3,000 square feet. I have not produced a complete 3D construction document package. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in resource and project management? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects on a schedule determined by my supervisor, my work is usually completed on time, and I submit my work to my supervisor for his/her review. I occasionally work on more than one project at a time and am responsible for allocating my time to meet deadlines. My work is completed on time, or I make arrangements in advance with my supervisor when additional time is needed. I also keep records of my work and submit them to my supervisor at project end for his/her review. I frequently work on multiple projects at one time. My work is completed on time, or I make arrangements in advance with my supervisor when additional time is needed. I am also responsible (in whole or in part) for maintaining budgets and schedules and I keep complete project records. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Which one of the following statements best describes your experience managing exhibition design schedules? Answer to this question is required I have met design schedules set by others. I have participated with others in setting design and production schedules. I have established design and production schedules for individual exhibitions. I have established design and production schedules for multiple, overlapping exhibitions or similar multi-year, multi-part design and construction projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.