Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator communicates on a regular basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others regarding the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; It is essential that he/she must be able to interact with and take feedback from individuals at all levels of the Agency, from institution staff to executive staff.&nbsp; He/she must be able to develop and present information simply and comprehensively to a variety of audiences on a variety of topics.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I presented recommendations as a participant of national work group; and/or as a representative of the agency, I have given presentations as a participant of a workgroup with external organizations; and/or I have developed and conducted a formal presentation intended for an audience of Wardens or executives; and/or I have provided a professional lecture or workshop awarding Continuing Education credit. I have given briefings to upper management on sensitive Psychology Services issues; and/or I have represented division/unit/field office on a national work group; and/or I have served in a leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have actively participated on a labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/upper management/Wardens, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. I have provided program oversight; and/or I have communicated general implementation guidance for a Psychology Treatment Program; and/or I have provided training and supervision of treatment staff; and/or I have answered questions from the field or regional staff regarding drug treatment programs; and/or I have responded to inmate complaints; and/or I have participated on a Community Relations Board; and/or I have assisted in tours; and/or I have given presentations to supervisors and line staff; and/or I have represented the Warden/upper management at mainline or during open house; and/or I have resolved internal and/or external departmental issues. None of the above. 7 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, briefings, and for national level groups.&nbsp; He/she maintains primary responsibility for the review and update of policy related to administrative procedures, treatment, and management of rehabilitative programs in the institutions.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, line staff, inmates and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented findings as a participant of a Program Review or comparable external audit; and/or I have assisted staff in preparing a highly technical report/document; and/or I have revised Institution Supplements; and/or I have written memorandums to inmates/staff to advise them of new policies or procedures. I have authored an article which was published in a nationally recognized correctional or mental health publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for assessing clinical treatment needs of an inmate population or staff training needs; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural guide explaining laws, and regulations in layman’s terms. None of the above. 8 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator is responsible for assessing and establishing the training needs of psychology staff in the institutions and designing specific strategies to meet the professional development needs of those staff.&nbsp; The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas that can be addressed with training programs or modifications to operational procedures. &nbsp;He/she analyzes a variety of sources of information, and analyzes/synthesizes these data to formulate a plan of action.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated institution operating procedures and recommended methods to improve mental health treatment services; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures related to substance use, sex offender, or mental health treatment and/or management based on review of governing policies, laws, regulations or clinical practice guidelines; and/or I have have reviewed program review/operational reviews, or internal/external audits in Psychology Services and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reviewed the behavior of inmates with a mental health, substance use, sex offender, or other psychiatric diagnosis to create a multi-disciplinary treatment/correctional management plan; and/or I have set specific clinical and work standards for subordinate psychologists/treatment specialists and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved treatment program(s) and/or management of an area of clinical psychology practice; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex behavior problems related to correctional management of inmates with mental disorders; and/or I have recommended a method to implement new agency/organization policy to treat or manage inmates with a substance use, mental health, sex offender, or other psychiatric diagnosis which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective delivery of clinical treatment services. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local mental health, substance use, sex offender, or other clinical treatment and/or management procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures for treatment and management of inmates with a mental health, substance use, sex offender, or other psychiatric diagnosis to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Psychology Data System and/or SENTRY information to assist in the preparation of a funding request for the operation; and/or I have made recommendations based on available information to improve current substance abuse/mental health/sex offender treatment protocols. None of the above. 9 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator must demonstrate specialized skills in the practice of psychology in a correctional setting.&nbsp; He/she must be knowledgeable and familiar with professional literature pertaining to the psychology practices and follows ethical guidelines of the American Psychological Association.&nbsp; He/she serves as a subject matter expert representing the Bureau on various inter- and intra-agency taskforces and committee groups on national issues in the area of rehabilitative services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided psychotherapy to individuals in a community mental health clinic; and/or I have conducted evaluations of children or adults referred for psychological assessments; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy with substance abusers, sex offenders, or mentally ill persons. As a psychologist, I have carried a caseload at an intensive outpatient program for mental health, substance use, or other psychiatric patients; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator of an outpatient treatment program, providing case supervision to multiple clients; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for indviduals with substance use, sex offense, or mental health diagnoses. While employed as a licensed psychologist, I have coordinated the operations of a prison-based, residential drug treatment program; and/or I have coordinated the services provided by a correctional treatment team in a prison inpatient unit; and/or I have served as the Suicide Prevention Program Coordinator and authored program materials; and/or I have supervised the clinical work of treatment providers in the context of a drug/alcohol, mental health, or sex offender treatment program in a correctional setting. None of the above. 10 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator must be knowledgeable of available research, practices, designs, statistics, program evaluation, as well as the application of research concerning the management and treatment of inmates with a history of psychological and behavioral disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a study of risk factors predictive of recidivism in criminal offenders and applied these findings to the development of a treatment protocol; and/or I have conducted a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for inmates with a history of violent offenses; and/or I have conducted a study examining the personality characteristics or co-occurring mental disorders of substance users in a prison population. I have demonstrated a comprehensive knowledge of professional literature by preparing a training protocol on substance use treatment; and/or I have written a literature review on the treatment of the mentally ill to assist in the development of a clinical training protocol; and/or I have compiled a written summary of available research on the therapeutic community model of treatment to develop a training protocol for substance users or another correctional offender population. I have assisted in the development of research measures to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment protocol; and/or I have served as a member of a research team which evaluated the effectiveness of a behavior management program; and/or I have conducted a comprehensive literature review to determine appropriate outcome measures for treating substance use and utilized this information to recommend a research protocol for an existing program. None of the above. 11 The Regional Psychology Services Administrator must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and inmate population in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a staff member through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have directed or coordinated an organization’s financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. None of the above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).