Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa, passport and/or immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa, passport and/or immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa, passport and/or immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa, passport and/or immigrations issues or have published on these subjects. 3 I have reviewed the following types of materials to identify omissions, errors, etc.: Answer to this question is required Job applications Order forms Claim forms Work orders Legal documents Forms for public records Local, state, and/or Federal forms None of the above 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 5 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 6 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 7 Select the party or parties to whom you have provided advice on governing laws and regulations: Answer to this question is required Internal customer External customers Management Peers Subordinates None of the above 8 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Provided guidance to peers, subordinates, and others in a customer service environment. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. None of the above. 9 From the list below, identify all audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or given presentations: Answer to this question is required General public Private industry Supervisors Team members Government officials Grantee representatives International organizations None of the above 10 Which of the following BEST describes your experience identifying problems and recommending solutions? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have identified potential problems and referred them to an appropriate official for resolution. I have identified potential problems and recommended ways to solve them. I have had the freedom to take charge of and effectively resolve problems on my own. I have taken charge of and effectively resolved problems on my own and had the freedom to take steps to prevent problems from reoccurring. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.