Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 4 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required I can articulate the important points of the material and draw conclusions. I can review various source materials and identify inconsistencies. I can identify the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. I can use quantitative methods. I can use qualitative methods. I can identify relationships between points, issues, or events. I can infer possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 7 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience coaching and training others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coaching and/or training other staff members. I have formal education coaching and/or training but have not yet performed it on the job. I have coached and/or trained new staff members on how to perform their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others who were having difficulty performing some aspects of their jobs. I have coached and/or trained others to develop them for future assignments or positions. 8 Please select the response that best describes your experience developing training curriculums: Answer to this question is required I have never performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task is central or a major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 10 From the following list, select those situations that represent your experience solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Combined pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents that identified policy issues and offered multiple options for resolution. Applied general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures or legislation. Served on teams assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to problems and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above. 11 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Negotiations None of the above 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statement of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitor contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 15 Which of the following project management tools/techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. 16 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 17 Which of the following BEST describes your experience developing and/or executing a strategic marketing plan for an agency or organization? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 18 Select one choice that best describes your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This includes acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated or resolved matters involving significant controversial policy or program issues. This includes communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (i.e., representatives from Department, Federal agencies, industry leaders, Congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (i.e., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 19 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.