Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working as a member of a team I have experience as a team leader I have experience leading teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience leading teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience leading teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 3 Which of the following statements describe your ability to supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations for project/team members. I have planned work assignments for project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have provided guidance to project/team members about their work. I have established deadlines for project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have provided positive and negative feedback to project/team members about their work. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have reported progress on projects/teams to management. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 4 Which of the following statements describe your interpersonal communication skills and experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good relationships with individuals and groups. I have initiated and made contact with individuals and organizations outside the organization. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have communicated with a variety of individuals and groups to explain involved procedures. I have communicated to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and the nature of the information. I have not communicated in any of the ways described above. 5 Which of the following answer(s) reflects your ability to conduct research and contextualize artifacts within the frame of African American history and culture? Answer to this question is required I have conducted research on museum artifacts related to American history and culture. I have conducted research on artifacts related to African American history and culture. I have conducted research to contextualize artifacts within the frame of African American history and culture. None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your experience cataloging artifacts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly researched and identified artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly determined the creator or manufacturer and dated artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly documented the physical characteristics of artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly written physical descriptions of artifacts as part of my job. I have created standards and guidelines for cataloging artifacts. I have reviewed cataloging records created by other employees for accuracy and consistency with standards and guidelines. I have trained other employees to catalog artifacts. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience your experience using The Museum Systems (TMS) to perform records data entry and subject cataloging? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in the use of The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System including records data entry and subject cataloging, but not development and description of reports. I have experience with internet interfaces providing public access to online digitization. I have work experience in the use of The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System including records data entry, subject cataloging, and development of description and procedural reports. I have experience with internet interfaces providing public access to online digitization. I have work experience using an electronic cataloging system other than The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your experience creating digital cataloging and constituent records for a collection information management system (CIS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created CIS cataloging records. I have created CIS constituent records. I have created standards and guidelines for creating CIS cataloging records. I have created standards and guidelines for creating CIS constituent records. I have trained others in making CIS cataloging or constituent records. I have monitored the work others making CIS cataloging or constituent records. I have done none of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used The Museum System (TMS) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with and have used other collections information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or KE Software (EMu Systems) I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access) I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. 10 Which of the following digital asset management systems (DAMS) and imaging software programs have you used?&nbsp; (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used Open Text and/or other digital asset management systems (DAMS) and have performed digital asset uploads and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I have a general working knowledge of digital asset management systems and software and I have performed digital asset uploads and retrievals. I am familiar with and have used Adobe Creative Suite (i.e. Photoshop, Fireworks and Illustrator.) I have experience with other imaging software programs. I have no experience with digital asset management systems or imaging software. 11 Which of the following describes your experience with best practices for managing digital assets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created standards incorporating best practices for managing digital assets for a cultural heritage institution. I have followed best practices for managing digital assets for a cultural heritage institution. I am familiar with best practices for managing digital assets. I am not familiar with best practices for managing digital assets. 12 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience in effectively communicating orally in order to obtain information and convey results? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following describes your experience performing project management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with a team to develop project timelines, schedules and tracking. I have assigned tasks and deadlines to a project team. I have tracked resources and supplies. I have alerted management to issues and suggested adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. I have acted as a liaison with other departments and teams on a project. I have been responsible for coordinating logistics on a project. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.