Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements describe your experience as it relates to financial management responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided procedural guidance concerning the format of submission of annual estimates of funding needs. I have calculated the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. I have reviewed, edited and consolidated annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. I have prepared/edited narrative justifications and projected funding needs, ensuring that data in request is formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I have monitored the execution of a budget with different sources and types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, trust funds transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed and other generated revenue. I have monitored obligations and expenditures of funds to ensure they are executed properly and timely. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience acting as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting to serve as financial advisor to members of management staff. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which statements reflect your experience performing administrative tasks in support of the budget process (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of budget principles, practices, and processes through on-the-job and/or classroom training. I obtain, compile, and summarize narrative information and quantitative budget data. I verify the costs of line items in the budget and enter the costs in standard forms and schedules. I extract budget and program data from computer printouts of accounting records, forms, and reports for use by co-workers. I track the results of budget deliberations in OMB and in Congress. I understand and apply congressional reprogramming requirements. I have worked with the Federal budget request process and time lines. I have worked with the Trust budget request process and time lines. I assist in writing appeals or inputs to appeals of OMB or Congressional reductions. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to discern trends in spending and differences in costs. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I review, verify and analyze submitted data for consistency with financial and program objectives and adherence to instructions. I help prepare schedules, graphs, and tables included in budget submissions. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda and in making recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in content of content written by others. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have made recommendations to supervisors, curators or higher management regarding changes in style of content written by others. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have experience writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 6 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to the preparation of department or unit budget justifications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared written budget justifications to support department-level budget requests for review by senior financial staff. I have edited or reviewed written budget justifications prepared by subordinate staff or others. I have prepared written operating procedures related to the development of departmental budget justifications for use by others. I have completed training on the preparation of written budget justifications. I have no experience preparing department or unit budget justifications. 7 Which of the following statement best describes your highest level of experience utilizing financial database systems? Answer to this question is required I have used a variety of financial management software applications and programs on a continuing basis to prepare financial reports and to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I have used a financial system on a daily basis, and used basic financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports. I have used basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience analyzing and interpreting financial data? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have documented and explained comparative analysis of general ledger balances. I have determined appropriate reports to analyze and resolve account discrepancies. I have worked with propriety and budgeting accounting in the Federal Government. I have performed analysis to determine abnormal trends. I have worked with subsidiary systems (i.e., procurement, travel, labor, bankcard, accounts receivable, and accounts payable) that interface with the General Ledger System. I have reviewed, analyzed, maintained, and reconciled subsidiary and general ledgers. I have reviewed, analyzed, and maintained agency deposits and funds administration. I have processed refunds and disbursements. I have performed analysis and special reviews to ensure integrity of accounting systems. I have taken corrective action to reconcile accounting errors. I have worked in an automated accounting system performing financial management activities. I have received training in professional accounting principles, theories, concepts, and techniques. I have received training in analyzing and interpreting financial data. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience with financial management techniques? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience evaluating internal controls. I have work experience evaluating compliance with established policies. I have work experience preparing or reviewing financial documents such as invoices, bank statements and payment vouchers. I have experience or training in accounting, auditing, finance, business, or a related field. I have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following describes your experience preparing departmental budgets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing a departmental budget. I have provided guidance to non-financial staff on the development of a departmental budget. I have provided analyses of the impacts of budget cuts or reductions to departmental budgets for management review. I have tracked departmental spending and provided updates to non-financial staff on the status of funds throughout a budget cycle. I have completed cost/benefit analyses for management review in the development and approval of a departmental budget. I have provided guidance to other financial staff on the development and tracking of departmental budgets and reviewed their work for accuracy. I have no experience preparing departmental budgets. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.