Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Specialized Experience : Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the private sector serving in a leadership (formal or informal) capacity overseeing and coordinating standard termination audit programs. Examples include : supervising a team of auditors; providing guidance and advice in the performance of non-trusteed plan termination statistical and compliance audits as an auditor, reviewer, consultant, or coach; and providing technical expertise regarding terminating defined benefit plan audit issues. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No All candidates for Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements:&nbsp; A. &nbsp;Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. OR&nbsp; B. &nbsp;Combination of education and experience; at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:&nbsp; 1. &nbsp;Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;&nbsp; 2. &nbsp;A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or&nbsp; 3. &nbsp;Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that&nbsp; (a) &nbsp;the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining;&nbsp; (b) &nbsp;a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and&nbsp; (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 2 After reading the requirements above, please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Auditor job series. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in (A) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B)(1) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B)(2) above. I meet the requirements set forth in all of (B)(3) above. I do not meet any of the choices above. 3 From the following options related to the ability to apply managerial concepts, practices, and organizational policies and procedures in order to lead employees, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience demonstrating leadership (formally or informally) to auditors conducting standard termination statistical and compliance audits experience reviewing standard termination statistical and compliance audits experience implementing audit programs, processes and evaluations experience serving as a resource to internal and external stakeholders to clarify organizational policies and procedures none of the above 4 From the following options related to knowledge of ERISA, laws and regulations, and Internal Revenue Code relating to provisions of ERISA, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience providing guidance and interpretation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), regulations and the related Internal Revenue Code policies and procedures experience reviewing standard termination statistical and compliance audits experience serving as a resource in providing guidance and technical understanding on non- trusteed defined benefit plan termination audits to internal and external pension stakeholders experience providing actuarial guidance on the calculation and review of benefit calculations in audits of non-trusteed plans none of the above 5 From the following options related skill in written communication, choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience recommending, developing, writing, or reviewing new or revised procedures related to standard termination audits experience providing written analysis and evaluation of information related to standard termination audits experience writing or reviewing reports to provide or summarize information related to standard termination audits experience drafting memoranda related to issues or concepts regarding standard termination audits experience communicating in writing to educate, guide, determine and enforce ERISA regulations as they relate to standard termination audits none of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).