Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Investigative Support Specialist interacts with people at all levels both internal and external to the organization regarding a variety of administrative and management issues.&nbsp;They act as liaison with other departments within the Bureau of Prisons and is responsible for coordinating efforts required to accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have conveyed and received sensitive information; and/or I have explained changes in policies/procedures such as the Inspector General Act. I have participated in a division/unit/office retreat; and/or I have explained the Inspector General Act to others in basic language; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have presented information to co-worker regarding filing procedures. I have served as key point of contact with Executive level staff in the regional offices and institutions; and/or I have briefed a new staff member on all aspects of the Inspector General Act; and/or I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented working papers to the Section Chief; and/or I have assisted others in conducting on-site investigation. None of the above. 3 Investigative Support Specialist communicates in writing with people at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding sensitive and non-sensitive issues. They&nbsp;will be responsible for creating reports, correspondence and charts to document findings of studies and analyses conducted. They must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and edited investigative reports; and/or I have edited documents completed by others and offered suggestions regarding development of documents; and/or I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have composed electronic mail to division personnel concerning upcoming events and deadlines; and/or I have prepared a newsletter article outlining a policy or procedure. I have collected/evaluated information and composed responses to public and professional inquiries based upon results of reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical errors and correctness of format; and/or I have entered information (narrative) into office computer in order to close out a case in a database; and/or I have completed standardized correspondence; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level/supervisory signature; and/or I have prepared correspondence from a draft; and/or I have e-mailed staff regarding due dates and/or explaining upcoming events. None of the above. 4 Investigative Support Specialist must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information from an established database to prepare a report for the supervisor’s review; and/or I have prepared documents and/or forms using word processing applications; and/or I have utilized an electronic mail system to send messages and/or establish and maintain appointments; and/or I have entered project data into a database. I have updated a presentation by changing information contained in slides, graphs and charts; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentations program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from mainframe or personal computer. I have used software programs to generate electronic mail messages to staff members; and/or I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (Microsoft, PowerPoint and Excel); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program. None of the above. 5 Investigative Support Specialist must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities to ensure timely completion of projects and assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed resources to determine needs; and/or I have maintained a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have in the absence of the Accountable Property Officer, ensured the proper use, maintenance and protection of assigned inventory; and/or I have established and maintained filing systems that met regulatory requirements concerning retention of investigative materials. I have ordered office supplies, furniture and equipment; and/or I have prepared requests for the repair of buildings, furniture, and equipment; and/or I have maintained calendars and schedules for staff. I have determined the resources needed for a project; and/or I have monitored workloads to prioritize schedules and coordinate assignments; and/or I have tracked expenditures for office or unit budget; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. 6 Investigative Support Specialist interprets and applies various federal government rules and regulations as they relate to the administration of a division, section, or office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed time and attendance records for office/division/unit employees; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have prepared travel vouchers and assisted employees in completing travel settlement paperwork. I have developed detailed checklists to be used to ensure federal regulations were appropriately applied in areas of travel, personnel/procurement; and/or I have ensured travel was settled in accordance with federal regulations; and/or I have updated time and attendance files for the office; and/or I have conducted time and attendance leave audits to ensure leave is being used appropriately; and/or I have responded to staff inquiries regarding travel/procurement; and/or I have researched and completed detailed purchase requests. I have determined proper per diem rate for specific geographic locations; and/or I have ensured travel settlements contained proper receipts and documentation attached before submitting for processing/reimbursement; and/or I have utilized checklists to ensure all required actions were taken and completed in compliance with policies and procedures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).