Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Forensics Analyst prepares a variety of analytical reports, threat assessments, risk assessments, guidelines, of understanding, intelligence advisories, briefing papers, affidavits, correspondence, training curriculum. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include high level agency officials, and staff of other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities associated with digital forensic examinations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared intelligence reports for review and approval by supervisor prior to use; and/or I have assisted in preparing intelligence related reports (threat assessment, risk assessment); and/or I have researched and prepared link analysis reports on incarcerated terrorists and their relationship to persons of interest in the community; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have prepared routine informative reports regarding analysis of population/demographic characteristics or general explanation of an analyses; and/or I have written memorandum for co-workers or less experienced employees outlining newly established procedures; and/or I have written an investigation report; and/or I have prepared written responses to correspondence from internal/external sources. I have prepared analytical intelligence reports in final format such as threat and risk assessments; and/or I have revised or written recommendations for revisions to internal/local policy/institution supplements; and/or I have prepared intelligence advisory reports explaining new or emerging threats or security concerns; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by coworkers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have revised established investigative/intelligence training based on new policies, procedures, or methods being implemented; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have prepared strategic plans. None of the above. 3 The Forensics Analyst contacts are extensive and may be made in person, telephonically, before groups, and through correspondence both internal/external. He/she may include contacts with U.S. law enforcement personnel, world-wide intelligence community, private sector, executive staff, other federal agency executives, courts, Bureau of Prisons staff, and/or other public officials. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication and public speaking skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted and exchanged information with employees from the U.S. Parole commission, U.S. Marshals, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Attorneys, the Court and other federal and state entities; and/or I have briefed executive staff/upper management on intelligence/case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have conversed with a task force team and executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures in the area of intelligence gathering and investigations; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have presented a formal training session/presentation for executive level staff. I have discussed procedures during a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have instructed informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have instructed a class using established curriculum or lesson plans; and/or I have prepared and presented a speech during Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I, Annual Training, or institution recall; and/or I have discussed efforts with other departments during a meeting to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. None of the above. 4 The Forensics Analyst provides invaluable substantive assistance to the Chief, Digital Forensics Unit (DFU) in support of the agency&rsquo;s complex intelligence and digital forensics missions. He/she is the Bureau&rsquo;s subject matter expert on digital forensics. He/she represents the Bureau&rsquo;s intelligence interests nationally and directly participates in the management, planning, design, and production of products and services related to digital forensics examinations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have collected data for training; and/or I have conducted a portion of a research project by collecting data and organizing information to be used by others; and/or I have served on a program review team or coordinated perpetual audits to ensure policy compliance. I have prepared highly technical intelligence reports and presented briefings to officials at all levels within the organization; and/or I have conducted database research in coordination with other task forces and members (i.e., analyzed telephone calls and correspondence, financial records, visitor and community connections, and custody-related contacts with Inmates of Greatest Concern, Security Threat Groups, and international or domestic terrorists in the custody of Bureau of Prisons); and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have entered non-routine information into an intelligence database to monitor and track various information. I have determined characteristics of problems/issues encountered by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have used SENTRY or other automated system to pull statistical data on inmates to maintain established intelligence gathering criteria; and/or I have used existing automation to retrieve available intelligence-related information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations. None of the above. 5 The Forensic Analyst must apply their knowledge of theory and principles of electronics to duties involved in the management, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic equipment and/or Information Technology (IT) systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided advanced training in more than one related electronics course (i.e., manufacturers training on radio systems, Private Branch Exchange (PBX) systems, fire alarm systems, Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) systems); and/or I have taught an electronics/communications systems or Information Technology (IT) course to students above the high school level (college/technical/military); and/or I have provided hands-on instruction to technical experts for installation and maintenance of complex electronics/communications or Information Technology (IT) systems and equipment; and/or I have developed and presented specialized formal training on communications and electronic or Information Technology (IT) systems to technical peers. I have researched, reviewed, and successfully implemented new theories, concepts, and developments; and/or I have developed plans for implementation of new or far-reaching telecommunications programs/Information Technology (IT) systems; and/or I have analyzed cellular phones or SIM cards. I have performed field-level installations of electronics or telecommunications equipment or Information Technology (IT) systems; and/or I have performed diagnostics, troubleshooting, and routine preventative maintenance on electronics or telecommunications or Information Technology (IT) systems; and/or I have repaired various telecommunications, Information Technology (IT) systems or cellular devices at the field level. None of the above. 6 The Forensics Analyst analyze and anticipate system design needs, revise, and debug computer programs, and propose and implement solutions. He/she must understand data structures in order to produce meaningful information and develop alternative solutions to data and system design in order to meet the needs of management and end users. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and resolved system design issues in a proactive capacity (e.g., applied a variety of debugging techniques in resolving complex software problems; and/or I have provided guidance to co-workers in debugging and testing programs; and/or I have identified program problems to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have resolved software/hardware issues when designing a database management system; and/or I have investigated, evaluated and selected tools and methods for improving productivity and software quality throughout a system life cycle and managed special projects that had a significant impact on the delivery of support services for field investigative offices. I have coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager; and/or I have reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred it for appropriate action; and/or I have installed new software applications. I have resolved system design issues; and/or I have diagnosed and solved system problems as a member of a team to re-design a system; and/or I have coordinated efforts to integrate and install software/hardware components during computer upgrades; and/or I have prepared memo/instructions outlining the correct operation of a system. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).