Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to communicate with various law enforcement agencies, co‑workers, Federal, State and private sector employees in order to effectively accomplish the mission of Residential Reentry.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed immediate supervisor or others on the status of workload, projects, and/or assignments; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues; and/or I have provided training to a group of participants. I have contributed pertinent information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed general information to others (i.e., policy interpretation). I have participated in internal staff meetings; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to new co-workers and others (i.e., office hours and directions; and/or I have explained office protocol to new employees). None of the above. 3 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries.&nbsp;Written correspondence prepared by him/her requires minimal oversight, changes, or grammatical corrections.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared form letters; and/or I have prepared an Incident Report; and/or I have prepared workload status reports; and/or I have prepared inmate release paperwork and/or furlough paperwork. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigative reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared reports and summaries with appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have prepared responses to a variety of Administrative Remedy Requests; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received from inmate family members or other requests for information received from outside sources. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop Out) responses; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. None of the above. 4 The Residential Reentry Specialist is responsible for analyzing a variety of information in order to make appropriate recommendations for offenders.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in providing recommendations for inmate/client program goals; and/or I have assisted others in performing research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. I have provided input on inmate programming; and/or I have assisted a team member during an internal audit to become familiar with requirements; and/or I have participated in a workshop or workgroup on analytical thinking. I have prepared recommendations based on document analysis (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Report, sentence computations, educational programming needs and statement of release); and/or I have participated as a team member in conducting perpetual audits or operational reviews; and/or I have recommended streamlined procedures for an internal process. None of the above. 5 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all assigned tasks/duties. He/she may occasionally act in the capacity of Residential Reentry Manager and is simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining his/her workload.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used standard operating procedures to prioritize workload; and/or I have followed supervisor’s instructions to meet required time-frames; and/or I have completed an assignment prior to deadline. I have initiated timely processing of referrals and transfer requests; and/or I have ensured all required/related steps are accomplished in completing internal assignments involving multiple disciplines; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs. I have utilized a database to track and prioritize workload; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have met internal deadlines on recurring assignments. None of the above. 6 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively interact with co‑workers, inmates, general public and outside agency personnel to assist in the Residential Reentry mission.&nbsp;He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments within the organization and external law enforcement agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided advice and/or guidance to staff; and/or I have served as a union steward; and/or I have mentored newly hired employees. I have coordinated the needs of an inmate in a Special Housing Unit, the needs of a United States Probation Office, private contractor, or general inquiry from the public; and/or I have obtained requested information and relayed findings to supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have coordinated Town Hall meetings, Sick calls and Mainline. I have stood mainline and effectively communicated information to inmates; and/or I have provided public information to visitors; and/or I have collaborated with a team and others to complete a project. None of the above. 7 The Residential Reentry Specialist participates in and often makes final decisions related to case management issues.&nbsp;He/she screens institution referrals for completeness and accuracy of information and makes routine referrals to contract facilities for placement.&nbsp;He/she assists in conducting monitoring and inspections of contract facilities to determine the level of compliance with Statement of Work and published standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the mail manual to respond to inmate/staff inquiries regarding acceptable mail; and/or I have compiled case history information on an inmate; and/or I have prepared an inmate orientation document which explained the rules and regulations of the institution. I have prepared e-mail notification to institution staff of future inmate movement; and/or I have assisted with paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have obtained and printed Central Inmate Monitoring System information. I have compiled monthly inmate release list; and/or I have prepared paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have verified and entered information into the Central Inmate Monitoring Systems. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to communicate with various law enforcement agencies, co‑workers, Federal, State and private sector employees in order to effectively accomplish the mission of Residential Reentry.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which successfully resolved an issue or problem; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have taught a course or presented technical information; and/or I have successfully dissipated a potentially dangerous situation by verbally calming upset individuals; and/or I have maintained a professional demeanor during adversarial encounters. I have briefed immediate supervisor or others on the status of workload, projects, and/or assignments; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues; and/or I have provided training to a group of participants. I have contributed pertinent information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed general information to others (i.e., policy interpretation). None of the above. 3 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries.&nbsp;Written correspondence prepared by him/her requires minimal oversight, changes, or grammatical corrections. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigative reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared reports and summaries with appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have prepared responses to a variety of Administrative Remedy Requests; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received from inmate family members or other requests for information received from outside sources. I have prepared technical reports that were used by management; and/or I have prepared correspondence/reports to be used by other law enforcement agencies; and/or I have replied to congressional inquiries; and/or I have written an article that appeared in a technical or professional newsletter. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop Out) responses; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. None of the above. 4 The Residential Reentry Specialist is responsible for analyzing a variety of information in order to make appropriate recommendations for offenders.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed a draft Institution Supplement or Program Statement and provided recommendations that were incorporated into the final document; and/or I have recommended/implemented procedural changes as a result of change in law, after action report and management directives; and/or I have recognized a deficiency in a program and initiated corrective action; and/or I have analyzed a variety of material and developed an improved process which was subsequently implemented; and/or I have provided recommendations for improvement or corrective action based on results of an Operational Review or Program Review or a comparable external or internal audit review. I have prepared recommendations based on document analysis (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Report, sentence computations, educational programming needs and statement of release); and/or I have participated as a team member in conducting perpetual audits or operational reviews; and/or I have recommended streamlined procedures for an internal process. I have assisted in providing recommendations for inmate/client program goals; and/or I have assisted others in performing research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. None of the above. 5 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all assigned tasks/duties. He/she may occasionally act in the capacity of Residential Reentry Manager and is simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining his/her workload.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices/agencies to complete assignments (i.e., coordinated bus movements, scheduled inmate transfers, processed mail and hospital trips; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted changing priorities to complete last minute or emergency assignments; and/or I have managed shift schedules for multiple employees rotating assignments as necessary to ensure adequate coverage. I have utilized a database to track and prioritize workload; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have met internal deadlines on recurring assignments. I have initiated timely processing of referrals and transfer requests; and/or I have ensured all required/related steps are accomplished in completing internal assignments involving multiple disciplines; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs. None of the above. 6 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively interact with co‑workers, inmates, general public and outside agency personnel to assist in the Residential Reentry mission.&nbsp;He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments within the organization and external law enforcement agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided advice and/or guidance to staff; and/or I have served as a union steward; and/or I have mentored newly hired employees. I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve issues; and/or I have provided instructions to inmates (i.e., Admission & Orientation (A&O) and mail procedures); and/or I have briefed management officials on status of projects or unusual issues encountered. I have coordinated the needs of an inmate in Special Housing Unit, the needs of a United States Probation Office, private contractor, or general inquiry from the public; and/or I have obtained requested information and relayed findings to supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have coordinated Town Hall meetings, Sick calls and Mainline. None of the above. 7 The Residential Reentry Specialist participates in and often makes final decisions related to case management issues. He/she screens institution referrals for completeness and accuracy of information and makes routine referrals to contract facilities for placement. He/she assists in conducting monitoring and inspections of contract facilities to determine the level of compliance with Statement of Work and published standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled monthly inmate release list; and/or I have prepared paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have verified and entered information into the Central Inmate Monitoring Systems. I have used the mail manual to respond to inmate/staff inquiries regarding acceptable mail; and/or I have compiled case history information on an inmate; and/or I have prepared an inmate orientation document which explained the rules and regulations of the institution. I have gathered information from new and old federal sentencing laws to resolve sentence computation problems; and/or I have prepared custody classification reports; and/or I have assisted in setting up Parole Commission dockets. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).