Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following supervisory duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Scheduling time and attendance. Work task assignments. Disciplinary actions. Performance plans and appraisals. Mentoring and coaching. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your experience working in an organization as a supervisory photographer? Answer to this question is required I have managed the daily operations of a photography, business, studio, or museum, including supervising staff and/or contractors, planning and managing work to meet project schedules, and developing budgets for the supplies, equipment, and contract services. I have assisted with the daily operations of a photography, business, studio, or museum, including overseeing the work of staff/ and or contractors, technicians and interns, and purchasing specified supplies and equipment for the organization. I have worked in a photography business, and/or studio completing assigned tasks, including purchasing requested supplies. I have not worked in a museum photography studio. 4 Which statement best describes your experience working in a museum photography and digital imaging studio? Answer to this question is required I have overseen the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio including monitoring the photography and other digital imaging of other staff and/or contractors, assisting with the planning and management of the work to meet project schedules, helping to develop budgets for equipment, supplies, and contract services; and drafting user guides, standards, guidelines, and workflows for museum photography and other digital imaging. I have assisted with the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have not worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. 5 Which statement best describes your professional experience taking photography in a range of locations? Answer to this question is required My professional photography projects were executed in the studio, on location in museum galleries, and at outside and off-site locations. My professional photography projects have been executed in the studio, on location in museum galleries, and at off-site locations. My professional photography projects have been executed in the studio and on location in museum galleries. My professional photography projects have been executed in the studio. I have not taken photography in any of the above locations. 6 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have orally presented ideas and decisions, on behalf of my supervisor/manager, to office staff so as to provide directions. I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience that was not responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated administrative information to internal audiences. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements best characterizes your teamwork or collaboration experience? Answer to this question is required Worked independently and do not have substantial teamwork experience or collaboration experience. Worked in collaboration with a variety of individuals and groups. Led a team in which I was responsible for coordinating the work of the team, ensuring work was completed on time, negotiating consensus among team members, and communicating progress to managers and supervisors. Collaborated with one or two other colleagues on a discrete project or assignment. I do not have teamwork or collaboration experience. 8 Which of the following best describes your role taken in applying policies and procedures for collections management work of your work unit? Answer to this question is required I have applied the policies and procedures set by others. I have enforced the policies and procedures set by others. I have interpreted the policies and procedures set by others. I have served on a committee responsible for setting policies and procedures. I have recommended or changed the policies and procedures. None of the above. 9 Which statement best describes your experience working with a digital asset management system in an archives or museum? Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for a digital asset management system (DAMS) with an organization, business and/or museum with a collection of archival photographic materials or art, including establishing image system requirements to support the organizations digitization initiatives and meet program objectives. I have assisted with the management of a digital asset management system in an archives or museum, including implementing specified image system requirements. I have experience using a digital asset management system in an archives or museum, including implementing specified image system requirements. I have not used a digital asset management system. 10 Which of the following do you have experience in making decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in making decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have made decisions to ensure the efficient, timely workflow within varying time frames as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following describe your experience in applying standards, best practices and principles in the fields of digital technologies, digital asset management, digital curation and metadata in digital asset management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing the digital asset management for the entire life-cycle of digital assets. I have experience overseeing the digital asset management of a large volume of digital assets. I have experience implementing FAGDI (Federal Agencies Guidelines for Digital Initiatives) guidelines for digital assets created for digital reformatting projects. I have experience implementing XML (extensible markup language) and XML DTDs (Data Type Definition Standards) as applied to digital asset management and digital asset delivery, including EAD and/or METS and/or MODS and/or MARCXML and/or PREMIS and/or TEI. I have experience applying best practices and standards for website accessibility of digital assets. I have experience managing rights metadata for digital assets. I have no experience with any of these job functions. 12 Which of the following describes your knowledge of copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in developing and implementing a code of best practices to improve access to a museum’s digital assets, and yet protect the museum from liability. I have knowledge of the evolving opinions and strategies regarding copyright as developed by professional associations and the legal community. I have knowledge of the current permissions culture, copyright strategies, and the doctrine of fair use. I have work experience providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards. I have no knowledge or experience with copyright policies and standards and their application in the use of digital images. 13 Which of the following digital imaging tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have experience working with digital images. I have searched collection information systems (such as MimsyXG, TMS, KEMu, etc.) to determine if a digital image exists. I have assessed existing images to ensure that they are in focus and represent the object accurately. I have created new digital images using either a digital camera or flatbed scanner. I have entered image metadata. I have uploaded images to a large-scale, centralized digital asset system. I have ensured appropriate digital asset management practices are followed. 14 Which of the following have you regularly performed in your past work? Answer to this question is required I routinely use photographic software (e.g. Photo Mechanic, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Bridge) to edit images. I occasionally use photographic software (e.g. Photo Mechanic, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Bridge) to edit descriptive embedded metadata of images. I have knowledge of image metadata standards for digital image management. I have used a Data Management Plan to guide work with digital images. I have used knowledge of digital asset management/digital curation gained through on-the-job training or college courses. None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your work experience with digital imaging? Answer to this question is required I have developed and implemented procedures for capturing and manipulating digital images as part of my regular duties. I have work experience using digital cameras and image manipulation software. I have knowledge of digital imaging and image manipulation software and techniques through college courses or independent study. I have no experience with digital imaging or image manipulation software. 16 Which statement best describes your experience with digital imaging technology in museums including defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process? Answer to this question is required I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and have defined system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducted assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and established controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and familiarity with defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducting assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums. I have no experience with digital imaging technology in museums. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.