Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Choose the statements that describe your driver competencies. Answer to this question is required Maneuvers vehicles in narrow and congested areas such as between buildings and other vehicles. Operates vehicles over a variety of roads and grades in all types of driving conditions. Selects and changes gears according to road and traffic conditions, speed, and vehicle requirements. Operates special purpose accessory equipment following safety procedures and precautions. Uses the power takeoff device to transfer engine power to the equipment. Manipulates a variety of controls, understands equipment gauges. Loads, distributes weight, and secures materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Pre-plans route to follow; takes in consideration clearance of underpasses, overhead power lines, weight limitations, highway restrictions, and alternate bypass routes. Makes judgments concerning turning radius, braking distance, and distance to be maintained from other vehicles. None of the above. 3 Select driver duties and responsibilities that you performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Performed general preventive maintenance and simple repairs on vehicles. Documented daily service inspections; ensured that major repairs were reported and scheduled. Operated trash packers including the operation of controls to compress truck contents and unloaded at a commercial dump. Loaded, distributed weight, and secured materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Operated trucks with snow plows equipped with a salt/sand spreader to remove snow and ice from roadways. None of the above. 4 Have you driven in adverse weather and traffic conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Select the group of individuals that you must interact with on a regular and continual basis. Answer to this question is required Law enforcement personnel Supervisory personnel both within and outside of your work jurisdiction Co-workers (both immediate and other agency employees) General public None of the above 6 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set Up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with construction projects Removed ice and snow from building steps and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivery of collection containers Sort a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, bottles, or cans None of the above 7 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 7.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.