Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in the development / application of workforce planning models: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in the development or application of workforce planning models. I have education or training in this area, but have not applied these skills on the job. I have experience in the use of workforce planning models. I have developed and used workforce planning models to analyze human resource issues. I have developed workforce planning models and have advised or trained others in their development and/or application. 2 From the list below, identify all audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Foreign Government officials Media None of the above 3 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 4 Please indicate for what types of employees have you recommended training or developmental activities. Answer to this question is required Administrative, e.g. Human Resources, Budget, Logistics, Program Analysis, etc. Clerical Professional, e.g. Foreign Affairs, Engineering, Scientific Managerial / Supervisory Interns or entry-level None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied your knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes None of the above 6 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required Produced a technical paper or policy report that relays findings in a larger context Analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue Produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results Collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue I have no experience in performing these tasks. 7 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to exercise initiative. Answer to this question is required I have recommended actions to achieve a benefit or advantage. I have designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have participated in a group designed and implemented new or innovative programs / processes to improve work processes and organizational performance. I have developed innovative solutions and non-traditional approaches to identify opportunities for improvement in job performance which contribute to overall organizational effectiveness. None of the above. 8 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely applied at work: Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Research capabilities Analysis capabilities Planning Monitoring response Prioritization Collaboration Accommodation Conflict resolution Negotiating Compromise Persuasiveness Responsiveness Identifying the need / requirement None of the above 9 Which activities have you performed that required planning, coordinating, and/or setting priorities? Answer to this question is required Determining resource requirements Setting agendas Developing contingency plans due to policy changes Planning and booking domestic travel Planning and booking international travel Scheduling meetings with foreign officials None of the above 10 Select the statement that best describes your experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. Answer to this question is required As part of my regular duties, I lead activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. As part of my regular duties, I participate in activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. I occasionally participated in activities involving diverse groups and coordinating technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations; however, this is not a part of my regular duties. I have training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I do not have experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. 11 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 12 Select the response that best describes your level of experience in managing databases, generating reports and analyzing data. Answer to this question is required I have created, populated and organized multiple databases used by groups of users. I have managed databases, conducted extensive data analysis, prepared comprehensive reports and from this prepared recommendations for consideration. I analyzed complex data produced from diverse sources and order appropriate action taken to improve procedures. None of the above 13 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.