Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes.** Have knowledge of Congress and legislative issues, including an understanding of the legislative and oversight roles of Congress and a basic understanding of congressional committee and subcommittee structure, as well as knowledge of the institutional and political environment in which congressional decision making occurs. Answer to this question is required Acquired and applied expert knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through employment or other equivalent professional experience (e.g., served as a senior-level legislative staff for a Member or congressional committee, for a congressional support agency, a federal agency in the executive branch, other groups such as a private public policy organization, or equivalent experience). Acquired and applied knowledge the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through employment or other equivalent professional experience (e.g., served as a legislative assistant for a Member or congressional committee, worked on legislative issues in an executive branch agency in a mid-level role that required congressional interaction, or equivalent experience). Acquired and applied familiarity with the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through employment or other equivalent professional experience (e.g., served as a legislative liaison, or in a congressional relations role, or equivalent experience). None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation or liaison services.** Developed and maintained effective working relationships among a variety of professional and administrative personnel within and outside the agency/organization for the purpose of programming and outreach work including event planning and assisting Members of Congress and their staff.&nbsp; These contacts include: 1) senior level managers, 2) supervisors, 3) professional and high level technical staff, 4) administrative support staff in other agencies, 5) political figures, 6) Members of Congress, and 7) Congressional staff. Answer to this question is required As the primary liaison, developed, maintained AND expanded effective working relationships with ALL OF THE ABOVE individuals within and outside the agency/organization. Developed and implemented strategies designed to reach and engage stakeholders in collaborative efforts. Advised and recommended innovative approaches for avoiding and/or resolving problems and reducing conflicts. This also involved responding productively to constructive feedback from colleagues and supervisors, raising concerns in a constructive manner, and offering potential solutions when concerns arise. As the primary liaison, developed AND maintained effective working relationships with SIX (6) OF THE ABOVE individuals within and outside the agency/organization. Implemented strategies designed to reach and engage stakeholders in collaborative efforts. Advised and recommended innovative approaches for avoiding and/or resolving problems and reducing conflicts. This also involved responding productively to constructive feedback from colleagues and supervisors, raising concerns in a constructive manner, and offering potential solutions when concerns arise. As the primary liaison, developed AND maintained effective working relationships with FIVE (5) OF THE ABOVE individuals within and outside the agency/organization. Recommended innovative approaches for avoiding and/or resolving problems and reducing conflicts. This also involved responding productively to constructive feedback from colleagues and supervisors, raising concerns in a constructive manner, and offering potential solutions when concerns arise. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to exercise judgment and discretion.** Addressed requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers where the agency or organization's mission required judgment, diplomacy, and discretion. Maintained effective interactions with others; used tact and sensitivity when handling confidential information; and solved problems or complaints by considering the likely precedents, consequences or implications of actions and adhering to agency or organizational standards even in ambiguous or controversial situations. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility in a fast-paced, highly complex, high-profile agency or organization whose clientele included decision-makers at the highest levels of the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, agency heads, CEOs), was regularly required to use judgment and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for fully understanding, articulating, and upholding agency/organization standards and policies under stressful working conditions and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective, diplomatic interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a moderately-paced, complex agency or organization whose clientele included staff representing national decision-makers in the public or private sector (e.g., executive directors of public policy research institutes, staff directors of congressional committees, presidents of professional or trade associations), was regularly required to use and tact, diplomacy, and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for fully understanding and upholding agency/organization standards and policies and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a complex agency or organization, was regularly required to use diplomacy and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for understanding and applying agency/organization standards and policies while responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide program policy advice and oversight.** Served as the principal advisor on policy matters related to area of expertise. Developed and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs and legislative initiatives. Counseled management and staff and advised on appropriate methods and techniques to achieve program goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required Served as the principal advisor to senior management and other officials including Members of Congress at multiple levels in an organization on ALL matters related to areas of expertise. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs and legislative initiatives. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials including Members of Congress at multiple levels in an organization on ALL matters related to areas of expertise. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs and legislative initiatives. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials including Members of Congress at multiple levels in an organization on SOME matters related to areas of expertise. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs and legislative initiatives. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing and review the writing of others. Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized written products. Reviewed these products to ensure they achieved their objective, complied with an agency's or organization's communications policies, were logically constructed, and were written in concise, unambiguous language.&nbsp; These documents include: 1) Congressional testimony or legislative equivalent, 2) responses to Congressional inquiries, 3) notifications to Congress, 4) briefing papers, 5) talking points, 6) official correspondence, 7) memoranda, 8) reports, 9) press releases, 10) blogs, 11) policies and procedures, and 12) program or project proposals. Answer to this question is required Serving in a senior-level communications position, wrote, reviewed, and oversaw production of ALL OF THE ABOVE written products. Serving in a senior-level communications position, wrote, reviewed, and oversaw production of TEN (10) OR ELEVEN (11) of the above written products, including #1 through #5. Serving in a senior-level communications position, wrote and reviewed NINE (9) of the above written products, including #1 - through #5. Work was subject to review before final distribution. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to convey analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain organizational objectives and goals. This included shaping the appropriate amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Routinely consulted with, advised, and briefed decision-makers at the highest level on complex and/or controversial issues, policies, and regulations. Settings were often unstructured and included those where audience knowledge of the issue ranged from expert to layman and the presenter had to respond to questions without benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Examples include providing oral briefings or formal presentations to senior officials in the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, CEO’s, agency heads, executive committees, state legislators); or equivalent experience. Briefed and presented analysis of complex and controversial issues, policies and regulations. Settings were sometimes unstructured and included those where audience knowledge of the issue ranged from expert to layman and the presenter had to respond to questions without benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Examples include providing oral briefings or formal presentations to mid-level officials in the private or public sector (e.g., Professional Staff Member, Legislative Director); acting as a spokesperson for an organization; or equivalent experience. Presented analysis of issues, policies and regulations. Settings included those that were unstructured. Examples include explaining program objectives and goals to audiences with various levels of knowledge of the issues; teaching a collegiate or other graduate level course, or equivalent experience. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).