Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 12 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience performing information technology examinations of insured depository institutions, information systems, and data centers. Gathering, analyzing, and interpreting financial data, system performance and security reports, and information technology related policies and procedures. Grade: 14 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 13 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience conducting Information Technology (IT) examinations at insured depository institutions and/or data centers with complex or problematic IT operations and experience gathering, analyzing, and interpreting financial data, system performance and security reports, and information technology related policies and procedures for new and/or unprecedented situations. Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate which region you wish to be considered for?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Atlanta New York San Francisco 2 Are you a Commissioned Risk Examiner in the FDIC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I understand that in order to be considered non-competitively I must include a copy of my SF-50.&nbsp;The SF-50 must show the highest grade level or full performance level I have attained competitively on a permanent basis, and the grade must be equivalent to or higher than the grade for which I am applying.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).