Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of web development/computer software quality assurance (QA) principles, concepts, techniques and methods.** Applied knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Computer Software quality assurance (QA) principles concepts, techniques and methods by performing the following: 1) manual and automated quality assurance testing on web sites and applications, 2) processes for designing and executing functional tests, performance tests and API tests, 3) translating customer requirements, acceptance criteria and features, 4) testing and monitoring software applications for basic Accessibility/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) compliance, 5) managing and reporting defects and related tickets, 6) managing automated testing frameworks and environments for functional, performance and API testing, 7) developing test reporting processes and managing test artifacts, metrics and reports, and 8) developing overall quality assurance procedures. Answer to this question is required As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on web site and software application quality assurance and quality control issues, performed ALL of the above. As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on web site and software application quality assurance and quality control issues, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on web site and software application quality assurance and quality control issues, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to perform quality control inspections.** Tested and evaluated software and digital media products. This involved the following: 1) handled issues requiring knowledge of quality assurance techniques and standards involving software or digital media; 2) planned and developed a comprehensive quality assurance program for functional program areas involving software and/or digital media; 3) provided oversight, developed progress and status reports, and provided workload planning; 4) evaluated and documented results; 5) coordinated and negotiated complex issues pertaining to the quality assurance programs; 6 ) evaluated tradeoffs, and&nbsp; recommended enhancements, and&nbsp; 7) developed and conducted demos and quality assurance training pertaining to software and/or digital media. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above to conduct file-based quality control inspections. Independently and routinely performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above to conduct file-based quality control inspections. Independently and routinely performed TWO (2) of the above to conduct file-based quality control inspections. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to monitor quality control operations. Monitored, maintained and improved quality assurance processes&nbsp; and in doing so, performed the following: 1) reviewed quality assurance test procedures to assure adequacy for the intended purpose; 2) used working knowledge of established quality assurance operating procedures and standards to assure all test procedures and associated quality control records were maintained in accord with approved methods; 3) executed on-site reviews and approval of deviations from quality assurance procedures; 4) handled problems in real time involving problems with non-conformance, test execution, performance, or equipment; and 5) developed and implemented timesaving workarounds. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed ALL of the above to monitor quality control operations. Independently and routinely performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above to monitor quality control operations. Independently and routinely performed TWO (2) of the above to monitor quality control operations. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with a diverse group of people. Worked well and cooperated with others, including those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals; showing understanding and respect for&nbsp;all,&nbsp;as well as dealing effectively with individuals who were difficult, hostile, and distressed to accomplish organizational goals or resolve problems and issues. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, actively and frequently collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish complex, mission-related activities inside and outside an organization/agency or to resolve problems and issues. Collaborated with those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals; showing understanding and respect for others. As job responsibility, actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish mission-related activities inside and outside an organization/agency or to resolve problems and issues. Collaborated with those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals; showing understanding and respect for others. Collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish activities or to resolve problems and issues within an organization/agency. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, and well organized documents, tickets, and other written artifacts. These documents include: 1) quality assurance program documentation; 2) training documents related to quality assurance programs and/or procedures; 3) standard operating procedures; 4) standard testing instructions; 5) formal quality control program records; 6) test readiness review documents; 7) formal test result documents; 8) specification documents involving quality assurance; and 9) technical articles or white papers involving quality assurance related research topics. Answer to this question is required As author, created SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above documents. As author, created FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents. As author, created THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above documents. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).