Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list, indicate the tasks that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have drafted policies, guidance and/or operating procedures pertaining to records or information resource management issues. I have conducted studies and recommended internal controls or procedures to resolve issues with records management systems. I have coordinated and assembled records from both automated and non-automated records management systems for projects and/or to respond to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and other requests. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to staff on records management issues. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to management officials on records management issues. I research and analyze policy concepts and issues, best practices and recommend appropriate solutions to records or information resource management issues. As the office liaison, I consult with other organizations on records management issues and provide guidance. I conduct and/or assist with conducting quality reviews of data entered and retrieved from the system to ensure the adequacy and accuracy of the information and to identify potential problems. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 5 Please select the statement that BEST describes your experience in applying a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, and improve program effectiveness: Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in applying a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, or improve program effectiveness. I have completed formal education or training in applying a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, and improve program effectiveness. However, I have no experience applying this in work situations. I have applied a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, and improve program effectiveness. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have applied a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, and improve program effectiveness as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I am considered an expert in applying a range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to identify, analyze, and improve program effectiveness. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 6 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 7 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to apply reasoning to analyze and evaluate information`s relevance, significance, and validity in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.