Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Examples of specialized experience include the following: (1) &nbsp;Responsible for Operational Technology security programs and activities involving strategic goals, workforce planning, policies and standards development, budgeting, information architecture planning and modeling and cybersecurity. (2) Overseeing the operations of an Operational Information Security and providing direct supervision to the members of the ISB (i.e., plans, directs, manages, supervises and evaluates programs, activities and staff). (3) Developing and overseeing the implementation and coordination of security protocols to ensure continuous monitoring, continuity of operations, protection against unauthorized access, incident response and restoring systems and services in the event of security incidents. 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of an operational technology employees or contractors? Answer to this question is required Established employee performance standards Assigned work to employees Counseled employees to improve/maintain performance Reviewed employee work for quality and completion Conducted on-the-job training for employees Disciplined employees Evaluated employee performance Recommended selection/promotion of employees Recommended and approved training None of the above 3 Do you have experience evaluating the quality, quantity, and timeliness of work products produced by Operational Technology employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you motivated employees who are accustomed to performing tasks using routine methods to adopt new technologies or processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to &ldquo;operational technology network security (e.g., firewalls, servers, switches)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with network security. I completed training or education on network security but have not implemented security settings on infrastructure equipment (e.g. firewalls, servers, or switches) on-the-job. I have monitored an enterprise-wide network by interpreting reports using automated tools to identify vulnerabilities and remediating issues. I have developed policy defining network security requirements. I have defined and implemented multiple network security protocols and/or systems that included hardware and software security tools such as firewalls and intrusion detection. 6 Select the activities you have performed related to Information Systems and Network Security. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and refined system security requirements Performed security analysis Evaluated multiple security alternatives Recommended optimum systems security integration solutions Prepared studies and plans for systems security integration Determined equipment and associated peripheral device requirements None of the above 7 Which automated tools have you used when monitoring an enterprise-wide network related to operational technology? Answer to this question is required Intrusion protection systems (IPS) Intrusion detection systems (IDS) Continuous monitoring software (e.g., Dell SecureWorks) End-Point protection (Microsoft System Center Endpoint Protection) Compliance/risk management software (e.g., Xacta) None of the above 8 Have you developed estimates and plans on how to resolve an information systems/network security vulnerability? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you weighed the importance of information systems/network security vulnerabilities to prioritize time and resources for a remediation plan? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which types of vulnerabilities have you remediated? Answer to this question is required SPAM Malicious threats (e.g., viruses) Phishing scams Viruses (e.g., shell shock) None of the above 11 Have you installed and configured firewalls for local or wide-area network security? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you recommended the type of network security equipment to be used to remediate a vulnerability? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with operational technology security plans? Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience related to information security plans. I completed training or education on information security plans but have not worked with them on-the-job. I made changes to an existing information security plan. I crafted a complete information security plan that was implemented. None of the above. 14 What is the most complex environment in which you have monitored for security vulnerabilities? Answer to this question is required More than 2,000 computer users geographically dispersed in multiple locations for an enterprise-wide system or multiple operating systems 2,000 or fewer computer users geographically dispersed in multiple locations for an enterprise-wide system or multiple operating systems More than 500 computer users in one building 500 or fewer computer users in one building None of the above 15 Select the departments with which you have collaborated to improve security controls and awareness. Answer to this question is required Records and Information Management Staff Office of General Counsel Office of the Chief Financial Officer Facilities Management Critical Infrastructure None of the above 16 Select the activities you have performed related to Information Systems and Network Security. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and refined system security requirements Performed security analysis Evaluated multiple security alternatives Recommended optimum systems security integration solutions Prepared studies and plans for systems security integration Determined equipment and associated peripheral device requirements Performed scripting tasks for system automation using scripting tools None of the above 17 Select all&nbsp;responses that describe your experience in monitoring and enforcing applicable baselines on various (IT) information systems: Answer to this question is required Servers Firewalls Routers Desktop PCs Laptops Tablets Smartphones None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.