Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she communicates with senior executives throughout the Bureau of Prisons on First Step Act (FSA) time credits, as well as with others in the U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, state agencies and institutions, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and various other agencies and divisions of the Department of Justice regarding a wide-range of FSA related activities.&nbsp; The Chief provides national directives to institution and Region and Central Office staff pertaining to the management of inmates committed under the care of the Federal Prisons System.&nbsp; He/she provides technical assistance to field staff on complex and emerging issues related to time credits and risk assessments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered national training presentations to personnel on First Step Act (FSA) time credits policies and procedures; and/or I have provided technical assistance and guidance to personnel on complex cases involving earned time credits calculations and risk assessment determinations; and/or I have participated in work groups with agency components to address operational challenges in First Step Act (FSA) implementation; and/or I have conducted briefings with senior level management on policy updates and procedural changes related to First Step Act (FSA) requirements. I have responded to routine inquiries from staff regarding basic First Step Act (FSA) time credits policies and procedures; and/or I have participated in meetings with colleagues to discuss First Step Act (FSA) program operations and inmate management issues; and/or I have provided standard information to field offices about risk assessment processes and eligibility requirements; and/or I have communicated routine updates and procedural clarifications to staff members within a correctional facility or Regional Office. I have briefed senior executives and Department of Justice (DOJ) leadership on complex First Step Act (FSA) implementation challenges and policy recommendations; and/or I have represented an agency at formal presentations with U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, and/or U.S. Parole Commission regarding First Step Act (FSA) time credits administration; and/or I have facilitated high-level training sessions for senior correctional administrators on emerging First Step Act (FSA) related compliance issues; and/or I have provided expert testimony or technical consultation to Congressional staff or oversight bodies on First Step Act (FSA) program outcomes and systemic challenges. None of the above. 5 The Chief, FSA Time Credits, prepares reports related to the First Step Act (FSA) program and synthesizes data into the reports for senior leadership.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for developing Bureau-wide operational guidance and procedures related to earned time credits and risk assessment implementation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have authored agency-wide operational policies and Program Statements establishing national procedures for First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment implementation; and/or I have prepared executive-level reports synthesizing complex statistical data, program outcomes, and policy recommendations for agency and/or Department of Justice (DOJ) leadership; and/or I have developed comprehensive operational guidance documents addressing complex legal, policy, and procedural issues related to earned time credits administration; and/or I have drafted formal correspondence and policy memoranda to external federal agencies, courts, and oversight bodies regarding First Step Act (FSA) compliance and program outcomes. I have prepared routine reports documenting First Step Act (FSA) program activities, training completions, or operational statistics for supervisory review; and/or I have written standard correspondence responding to inquiries from staff or inmates regarding time credits eligibility and procedures; and/or I have documented case notes, incident reports, or procedural summaries related to inmate risk assessments and program participation; and/or I have drafted routine memoranda or email communications summarizing meeting outcomes or conveying procedural updates to colleagues. I have prepared quarterly or annual reports on First Step Act (FSA) time credits program operations, including statistical summaries and trend analysis for agency management; and/or I have developed training materials, instructional guides, and technical bulletins for field staff on earned time credits calculations and risk assessment procedures; and/or I have written technical guidance documents addressing specific operational challenges or case scenarios related to First Step Act (FSA) implementation; and/or I have drafted policy clarifications and procedural updates to ensure consistent application of First Step Act (FSA) requirements across multiple institutions. None of the above. 6 The Chief, FSA Time Credits, oversees the development, delivery, and evaluation of First Step Act (FSA) related training, earned time credits and risk assessments for Central Office, Regional Office, and institution staff. He/she has full supervisory authority over subordinate staff, including assigning work, setting priorities, evaluating performance and recommending personnel actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assigned work tasks and established priorities for team members supporting First Step Act (FSA) time credits administration and risk assessment operations; and/or I have conducted performance evaluations for subordinate staff and provided coaching on professional development and career progression; and/or I have coordinated or delivered training sessions for staff on earned time credits policies and risk assessment tools; and/or I have participated in the selection process for new hires or provided input on staffing recommendations for First Step Act (FSA) related positions. I have mentored or provided on-the-job training to new employees or colleagues on First Step Act (FSA) time credits procedures and risk assessment processes; and/or I have assisted in coordinating training schedules or preparing training materials for staff development programs; and/or I have served as a lead worker or subject matter resource for team members on routine First Step Act (FSA) operational questions; and/or I have participated in peer reviews or provided technical guidance to coworkers on standard First Step Act (FSA) related tasks. I have supervised subordinate staff with full authority for hiring, completing performance evaluations, recommending disciplinary actions/promotions or personnel actions; and/or I have developed and implemented strategic workforce plans identifying staffing requirements, skill gaps, and training needs for First Step Act (FSA) time credits operations; and/or I have oversaw the design, delivery, and evaluation of comprehensive training curricula for several thousand employees on earned time credits and risk assessment procedures; and/or I have managed Performance Improvement Plans (PIPs), mentored supervisory staff, and established performance metrics and accountability standards for subordinates and field personnel. None of the above. 7 The Chief, FSA Time Credits, coordinates with other Central Office components to ensure policy alignment and operational feasibility as it relates to the First Step Act (FSA).&nbsp; He/she must have a thorough knowledge of federal correctional operations, inmate management, custody and release processes, and institutional programming. The Chief, FSA Time Credits, must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and First Step Act (FSA) statutory requirements. He/she must have knowledge of the variety of institutions, inmate populations and problems presented by the various combinations to direct and evaluate operating programs in the field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have knowledgeable in basic organizational structure and reporting relationships relevant to First Step Act (FSA) time credits administration; and/or I have applied knowledge of First Step Act (FSA) statutory requirements to perform routine assessments or time credits calculations for eligible inmates. I have collaborated with other organizational components to implement First Step Act (FSA) policies and resolve operational conflicts between First Step Act (FSA) requirements and existing institutional procedures; and/or I have applied knowledge of federal correctional operations, custody levels, and release processes to interpret and apply First Step Act (FSA) time credits policies in various institutional settings. I have coordinated with multiple agency divisions (i.e., General Counsel, Industries, Education, Programs, Designation and Sentence Computation) to ensure First Step Act (FSA) policy alignment and operational feasibility across competing organizational priorities; and/or I have applied expert knowledge of federal correctional operations, custody classification systems, release processes, and institutional programming to develop comprehensive First Step Act (FSA) implementation strategies accommodating different facility types and security levels. I have navigated approval processes and coordinated First Step Act (FSA) initiatives across various offices; and/or I have identified how First Step Act (FSA) requirements intersect with other agency programs (i.e., Residential Drug Abuse Program (RDAP), educational programming, work assignments) and ensured coordinated implementation. I have analyzed First Step Act (FSA) statutory requirements in the context of the agency’s mission and strategic goals, advising senior leadership on policy implications and organizational risks; and/or I have evaluated the impact of First Step Act (FSA) time credits policies on various inmate population segments (i.e., different offense types, security levels, sentence lengths) and recommended organizational adjustments to program delivery models. I have recognized how First Step Act (FSA) policies relate to institutional operations such as program assignments, custody levels, and release planning; and/or I have applied knowledge of general goals of the agency regarding inmate rehabilitation and successful reentry into the community. None of the above. 8 The Chief, FSA Time Credits, evaluates First Step Act (FSA) operating programs in field institutions.&nbsp; He/she provides input regarding First Step Act (FSA) related budget and staffing needs.&nbsp; The Chief, FSA Time Credits, oversees the development, delivery, and evaluation of First Step Act (FSA) related training on earned time credits and risk assessments. He/she identifies systemic issues, trends, and risks related to assessment outcomes and recommends corrective action or policy enhancements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated First Step Act (FSA) time credits programs at assigned institutions, identifying implementation challenges, training gaps, and areas requiring procedural clarification; and/or I have provided input to supervisors on budget needs or staffing recommendations based on observed workload demands and program expansion requirements. I have analyzed assessment outcome data to identify disparities, accuracy concerns, or policy gaps, recommending comprehensive policy enhancements to senior leadership; and/or I have designed strategic planning frameworks and performance metrics for First Step Act (FSA) program evaluation, establishing benchmarks for program effectiveness and institutional compliance nationwide. I have reviewed individual inmate files or program records to ensure compliance with First Step Act (FSA) time credits policies and procedures; and/or I have provided feedback to supervisors on observed operational challenges or resource constraints affecting day-to-day First Step Act (FSA) program administration. I have evaluated First Step Act (FSA) programs across all institutions, identifying systemic implementation issues, outcome trends, and operational risks requiring policy modifications or corrective action; and/or I have developed and justified budget proposals and staffing requirement recommendations for First Step Act (FSA) time credits operations based on workload analysis, program growth projections, and resource constraints. I have participated in training program delivery or assisted in evaluating training effectiveness for institutional staff on earned time credits procedures; and/or I have identified routine procedural errors or documentation issues in risk assessment processes and reported findings to supervisors for corrective action. I have oversaw the development and delivery of First Step Act (FSA) training programs for field staff, evaluating training effectiveness and updating curricula based on participant feedback; and/or I have analyzed trends in risk assessment outcomes or earned time credits calculations within assigned areas, identifying potential issues and recommending corrective measures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).