Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 3 In addition to the minimum education and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training equivalent to the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and training requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Telepsychiatry Coordinators must effectively communicate on a regular and recurring basis with psychiatrists, staff, inmates and outside resources in order to provide leadership in the delivery of mental health care to the inmate population. They must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate, participate in and oversee the functioning and growth of the telepsychiatric services within the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have spoken as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference on a new medical treatment; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have acted as the Chief Psychiatrist during meetings and disseminated information that required follow-up or after action reporting. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have participated in a workgroup/taskforce to resolve medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances, concerns; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. None of the above. 5 Telepsychiatry Coordinators must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. They are responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. They will also be responsible for developing and preparing revisions to objectives, policies, procedures, standards, guidance and program statements relating to Telepsychiatry services within the Bureau of Prison. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker's compensation cases, Social Security Disability application; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. None of the above. 6 Telepsychiatry Coordinators must analyze and evaluate a variety of information to ascertain if current programs, processes, and/or procedures are meeting their intended goals for the telepsychiatric services. They must be able to systematically identify, monitor, investigate, and analyze operational and program issues affecting the management of the organization, and must be able to establish appropriate responses or resolutions to either short and long-term problems or issues encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched patterns or trends in medical treatment plans to support data collection; and/or I have compared analysis and benchmarking to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment programs; and/or I have recommended specific strategies for a corrective action plan; and/or I have assisted in preparing a national training program on similar activities based on the trends identified. I have identified patterns or trends in medical data collection; and/or I have performed comparative analysis and benchmarking; and/or I have recommended and implemented specific strategies for a corrective action plan; and/or I have prepared or conducted national training program on similar activities based on the trends identified; and/or I have conducted training program based on the collection and analysis of medical data, including the application of statistical or other tools. I have participated on Improving Organizational Performance activities and quarterly meetings making clinical recommendations for mental health treatment; and/or I have collected, trended and analyzed organizational performance data; and/or I have conducted study on risk management topics as part of Improving Organizational Performance activities. None of the above. 7 Telepsychiatry Coordinator must have expertise in the provision of Tele-medicine, skills training interventions, design and implement evaluation strategies to determine program relevancy and effectiveness. They must be able to analyze objectives, policies, procedures, standards and guidelines to ensure uniform application in continuing professional medical education operations, management, administration and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided "difficult case conference" in monthly psychiatry newsletter; and/or I have provided active leadership to peers or other clinical professionals on delivery of care through a multi-disciplinary approach; and/or I have provided technical assistance and training through orientations, and staff assistance visits; and/or I have developed programs, educational seminars and lectures to all levels internal and external to the organization; and/or I have developed and implemented guidelines for tele-psychiatric care in a multi-disciplinary care environment. I have designed individual treatment modalities, using a variety of treatment options; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated patient data or test findings to diagnose nature or extent of mental illness; and/or I have collaborated with physicians, psychologist, and social workers to provide treatment plan options and progress for patients; and/or I have exhibited a thorough knowledge Electronic Medical Record program; and/or I have assisted with the creation of mental health clinical practice guidelines; and/or I have provided training to peers on an area of subject matter expertise; and/or I have ensured quality patient care was in accordance with policy, American Correctional Association and/or Joint Commission standards; and/or I have updated/revised policy or guideline changes based on existing policies or guidelines. I have attended continuing education programs related to subject matter expertise; and/or I have consulted with peers, supervisor or lead in determining best practice of treatment for an individual; and/or I have gathered and maintained patient information via SOAP notes and added them into the Electronic Medical Record program; and/or I have counseled patients or others during office visits; and/or I have exhibit working knowledge of the organizational policy and procedures related to the care of the mentally ill; and/or I have maintained licensure by accessing appropriate continuing medical education programs. None of the above 8 Telepsychiatry Coordinators are responsible for providing supervision, orientation and training to all Telepsychiatrists at non-medical center locations and coordinating the workload and psychiatric support efforts between Telepsychiatrists and their assign institutions. This involves professional management of the initial Tele-psychiatrist positions as well as the clinical competence of the provider.&nbsp; They must be able to motivate, supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program. I have developed organizational structure and defined staffing requirements for optimal performance of organization; and/or I have provided leadership training to staff at a national level, developed incentive plans to recognize exceptional performance, developed meaningful performance metrics to ensure accountability, exceeded organizational goals and to effectively assessed staff performance; and/or I have thoroughly analyzed candidates for selection and provided sound recommendations for consideration by the selecting official; and/or I have provided mentoring and coaching support to subordinates including the development of appropriate training plans to address weaknesses. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for agency/organization; and/or I have developed and implemented a cross training program for employees in the department/section; and/or I have ensured all supervisors in the department/section received training in the Mentor Program; and/or I have provided subordinates opportunities to brief senior officials on technical areas, such as site selection, new prison construction or environmental compliance. I have effectively managed challenging personnel situations involving disciplinary action or performance improvement plans; and/or I have provided assignments which required community exposure, such as public speaking opportunities and speech preparation; and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability None of the above Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).