Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience in caring for museum collections and preparing them for research or exhibition use? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have had formal coursework in conservation. I have assisted a conservator in caring for museum collections. I am familiar with the principles of collections storage. I have rehoused collections into appropriate storage. I have designed a storage space for a collection. I have designed multiple different storage space types for several different collection types. I have prepared a museum specimen for exhibition. I have prepared a museum specimen for research use. I have performed conservation treatments on anthropological collections. I have performed conservation treatments on geological collections. I have performed conservation treatments on biological collections. I have done analytical tests of past chemical treatments that were done on museum collections. None of the above 5 Which of the following describes your experience with providing conservation services for museum exhibitions, including planning, materials and object selection, installation and condition reporting, maintenance and monitoring, de-installation, and packing for return to lenders? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have assisted a conservator to install collection items in a museum exhibition. I have designed a museum exhibit case to meet the collection item lender’s requirements for exhibit conditions. I have advised a curator on the most appropriate conditions for exhibiting a museum collection item. I have advised an exhibit team on the range of conditions that must be met for a museum exhibition. I know how to select materials for fabrication of an appropriate exhibition vitrine. I have completed condition reports for 1-5 different museum collection items. I have completed condition reports for numerous collection items. I lead the work of a team to install, maintain, deinstall and pack exhibited items for return to lenders or storage. I have packed collection items for return to lenders. I have prepared collection items for return to storage. None of the above 6 Which of the following activities related to preservation exhibit work have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified exhibit cases materials that are stable, non-damaging, and suitable to use for cultural objects on display. I have tested exhibit case materials to determine if they are stable, non-damaging, and suitable to use for cultural objects on display. I have reviewed specifications for proposed exhibit case materials to determine if the materials are stable and non-damaging to cultural objects on display. I have reviewed exhibit case blueprints to determine whether they meet preservation requirements for the display of cultural objects. (e.g., buffer objects from environmental changes, remove/limit harmful light radiation, block out dust and foreign substances, etc.) I have reviewed object mounting/bracketing designs to determine whether they meet preservation requirements for properly supporting cultural objects on display. I have constructed object mounts, brackets, and other supports for displaying cultural objects. I have reviewed exhibit gallery plans to determine whether they support the preservation of the cultural objects on display. I have no experience with preservation exhibit work. 7 Have you written technical reports which included examination and treatment proposals, photographs and sketches, if needed, to explain the relationship to the choice of treatment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following describes your experience writing technical reports which included examination and treatment proposals, photographs and sketches, if needed, to explain the relationship to the choice of treatment? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following describes your experience identifying your advanced knowledge of conservation and collection maintenance techniques and procedures to examine and house highly complex and damaged, fragile, or deteriorated objects for a museum collection? Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of conservation techniques. I have trained conservators/curators and others in performing these duties. I have performed collection maintenance and procedures to examine and house damaged fragile and deteriorated objects in order to make high level recommendations to management. I have studied conservation and have experience with conservation of objects. I have some research experience with conservation topics. None of the above. 10 Which of the following analytical tools do you have knowledge of for the purpose of examination? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Polarized light microscope Binocular microscope Trinocular microscope pH meter UV light Chromatography Infrared spectroscopy X-ray fluorescence (XRF) Raman spectroscopy FTIR Electron microscopy - SEM / SEM-EDS / FE-SEM / TEM-EDS Microfadometer Photomicroscopy Multispectral/hyperspectral imaging None of the above. 11 Which of the following museum artifacts or collections have you been responsible for preserving or conserving? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Works of art on paper Archival and documentary collection Photographic materials Artifacts incorporating paper Furniture Wooden artifacts Mechanical and technical artifacts Ethnographic collection Archaeological objects Skeletal collection Botanical preparations Study skins or taxidermy mounts Fluid-preserved specimens or remains Anthropological objects collection (archeological and ethnological) Textiles Paintings Printed artifacts Books Manuscripts None of the above. 12 Which of the following museum artifacts or collections have you applied a conservation treatment to? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Archaeological or ethnographic objects Archaeological or ethnographic textiles Photographic materials Archaeological human or animal bone Geological or paleontological specimens Botanical preparations Study skins or taxidermy mounts Fluid-preserved specimens or remains Manuscripts None of the above 13 Which of the following describes your experience communicating research results on conservation issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched and compiled data on conservation issues for inclusion in publications. I have been a co-author for a published article on conservation of cultural objects. I have been the first author for a published article on conservation of cultural objects. I have presented papers or research results on conservation to a professional audience. I have prepared and presented posters on conservation to a professional audience. I have presented information on conservation to the general public. None of the above 14 Which of the following represents your experience giving instructions required to treat collections? Answer to this question is required After receiving an assignment (i.e. exhibit installation), I have developed procedures and delegated tasks to a team (staff, interns, and/or volunteers) to accomplish the task. As part of a team, I have managed aspects of an assignment, directing some staff when necessary. I have never lead a team, but have been part of teams to carry out assignments. I have never lead a team, nor have I been part of a team to carry out assignments. 15 Which of the following types of staff and contractors do you have experience coordinating work with in a museum setting or similar environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Curators and/or researchers Conservators Registrars and/or objects processing staff Building engineers and/or craft trades (plumbers, electricians, HVAC mechanics) Public programmers and/or educators Fabricators and/or exhibits production staff Designers Security officers Photographers Vendors Donors None of the above 16 Which of the following describes your experience in handling fragile artifacts, documenting conditions, re-housing, preparing artifacts and digital collection items for cataloging, and moving artifacts and collection items to designated temporary or permanent storage locations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and/or moving cultural objects. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and/or moving archaeological human or animal bone. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and/or moving archaeological or ethnographic textiles. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and/or moving photographs. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and/or moving archival collections (including documents, scrapbooks, manuscripts, and rare books) I have not performed any of the tasks above. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience with development and implementation of Integrated Pest Management Plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Which of the following best describes your experience with development and implementation of Disaster Management Plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.