Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Budget Development Branch must communicate with staff, managers, regional and Central Office administrators, outside officials in providing guidance, implementing/modifying systems, resolving issues, planning and coordinating projects, and giving presentations at meetings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved or clarified non-reoccurring budget issues with the Department staff; and/or I have responded to questions from the field and regional staff on budget issues; and/or I have advised regional office comptrollers and/or budget analysts telephonically on resolving automated budget data problems; and/or I have worked with headquarters Program Managers in the development and execution of budgets for regional and field operations. I have briefed upper management regarding critical and/or highly sensitive issues such as, complex and/or technical budget issues, sensitive financial data related to the Bureau’s budget requests; and/or I have represented the Bureau, making formal presentations to representatives of Congress, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Department of Justice and/or other divisions on major topics or issues affecting the organization and/or the public; and/or I have served as a nationally recognized authority on the formulation, justification and presentation requirements of the formal budget submissions including formal revision of the budget, i.e., amendments, supplements, reprogramming and rescissions; and/or I have communicated and/or interacted with the Department, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congressional staff regarding potential impact of initiatives and other scenarios affecting the Bureau. I have, as chairperson, guided workgroup in resolving technical and complex budget issues; and/or I have, as a committee member, presented the proposed agency/organization annual budget and responded to questions posed by the Director of the Bureau, Executive Staff/top management; and/or I have made recommendations to management on how to process reprogramming; and/or I have provided instruction on financial topics for new Wardens, Associate Wardens and Senior Management Officials; and/or I have represented the agency/organization in high level meetings regarding Budget and Finance matters (mid-year component fund status reviews) with the Department and Office of Management and Budget. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Budget Development Branch prepares a wide variety of reports including budget reports, plans, financial documents, executive staff papers, issue papers, memoranda, policies, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the agency's financial integrity and well being. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed the formal appropriations requests which included strong narrative support of the Bureau’s budget requests and financial status; and/or I have developed written testimony for the Bureau Director’s use in appropriations hearings before Congress; and/or I have prepared numerous written summaries containing current, past and future fiscal years’ budget data and projections documents at the request of the Department, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Congress, upper management officials internal and external to the agency. I have developed budget policy that affects the agency/organization; and/or I have responded to inquiries from management officials regarding reprogramming of funds; and/or I have prepared a response to a Congressional inquiry for the Assistant Director/Director/CEO signature; and/or I have written executive staff papers on budget issues; and/or I have prepared narratives to justify projects in the annual budget submission; and/or I have developed summary and detailed back-up material for management officials appearing before Congressional subcommittees; and/or I have developed/prepared curriculum for required senior management level training courses related to Budget and Finance (i.e., CEO Training, New Wardens Training, New Associate Wardens Training, Division Chiefs Training, Use of Appropriations Training). I have prepared the Bureau’s portion of the Attorney General’s issue papers for use at an appropriations hearing; and/or I have prepared prison impact assessments for new administration initiatives and proposed legislation; and/or I have developed reprogramming proposals or formulation of supplemental appropriations requests for transmittal to the Department, OMB and Congress; and/or I have written detailed responses to the Department, Congressional, General Accounting Office and/or White House inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have prepared talking points for the Bureau Director. I have prepared operational memorandums/change notices on budget issues; and/or I have prepared correspondence to regional administrator regarding budget preparation instructions; and/or I have prepared reports to the Department or Office of Management and Budget (OMB) such as apportionment schedules and status of budgetary resources; and/or I have developed/prepared training course curriculum for Regional Budget Analyst, Budget Analyst and Program Managers on topics related to Budget Development and Execution (management of funds). None of the above. 6 The Chief, Budget Development Branch gathers information regarding a project, program or financial activity, analyzes the information and makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed deficits for program area and recommended solutions/corrective action; and/or I have developed budget for individual appropriations; and/or I have determined the need for internal reprogramming; and/or I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns on inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history, investigated and determined causes for inconsistent spending patterns. I have gathered, evaluated and analyzed regional and division budget requests to provide recommendations to Senior Management officials; and/or I have analyzed the Department, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congressional budget proposals and devised/implemented alternative actions to meet the needs of the Bureau; and/or I have analyzed complex financial and budget data to interpret the impact on Bureau requirements; and/or I have reviewed department/organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained; and/or I have researched and analyzed current and future resources to develop alternatives to proposed program reductions or elimination; and/or I have analyzed Congressional legislation and provided guidance and recommendations to Senior Management Officials; and/or I have reviewed and evaluated the Bureau’s financial state to ensure adequate funds for program coverage. I have developed plans to meet executive staff/top management goals for new management initiatives; and/or I have researched present and historical financial data to develop alternatives for downsizing the agency; and/or I have detected inconsistencies or potential problems in regional budget and made recommendation for resolution (performed cost analysis); and/or I have provided guidance to Senior Management Officials (Agency Budget Officer, Deputy Attorney General, Division Heads, etc.) regarding financial planning and the relationship to various agency Strategic Goals (i.e., reduction goals, cost containment efforts, consolidation costs, etc.). None of the above. 7 The Chief, Budget Development Branch must possess comprehensive knowledge of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed and/or provided oversight for the development of the Bureau’s annual fiscal year budgets; and/or I have applied knowledge of correctional principles, functions and processes to analyze emerging issues which have an impact on the operation of the Bureau; and/or I have ensured funding requests are in accordance with program needs and the interpretations of law, regulation or policy; and/or I have assessed the impact of major issues on prison cost and on current operations for the Bureau, Department and other agency information or decision processes; and/or I have presented and justified the annual budget plan to top management officials and/or staff of Congressional appropriations subcommittees; and/or I have developed, presented and defended issue and policy papers on any corrections topic requested by Executive Staff, the Director or the Assistant Director for Administration. I have determined the legality of using appropriated funds to purchase specific items; and/or I have monitored several appropriations, such as salary and expense (S&E), trust fund (TF), Violent Crime Reduction Program (VCRP) and building and facilities (B&F), to determine how well the entire agency/organization was functioning financially; and/or I have provided guidance to the Accounting Department in resolving financial issues. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared FMIS reports to ensure plans balance; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Budget Development Branch, uses a variety of procedures, policies and regulations to determine the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided alternatives to field/local offices in using FMIS-DBM table files when pulling information, use of other automated financial management program; and/or I have used Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars to determine reporting requirements; and/or I have used agency budget manual to provide guidance to lower level staff in resolving budget issues. I have used legal documents such as the US Codes, Department Budget Execution Program and Call policies, Executive Orders, court rulings or appropriation laws to determine whether funds were used properly; and/or I have followed proper Department and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) policies and procedures to prepare annual fiscal year budget estimates and justifications; and/or I have ensured compliance with all policies, laws and regulations as delegated by the Anti-Deficiency Act; and/or I have ensured expenditures of funds are in accordance with program requirements and as enacted by law; and/or I have applied Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Treasury guidelines to make recommendations on reprogramming actions; and/or I have applied Department General Provisions to request transfers within the Agency, under the Attorney General’s transfer authority; and/or I have applied Commerce, Justice and Science General Provisions to maximize the Bureau’s financial resources. I have researched and applied Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Treasury guidelines to make recommendations on reprogramming actions; and/or I have explained to new agency Program Administrators/Wardens/CEO’s the appropriation guidelines; and/or I have researched and determined what fiscal laws allowed exceptions to agency policy; and/or I have prepared curriculum related to Use of Appropriations Training and/or provides guidance to Senior Management level officials regarding proper use of appropriations. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Budget Development Branch must interact with various staff, consultants, co-workers, supervisors, managers and executives. He/she must be able to effectively supervise branch staff, as well as direct the work of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed/supervised subordinate management employees, providing broad/general guidance, regarding the organization’s mission, program objectives and project requirements; and/or I have reorganized and/or restructured the organization to enhance operations and increase efficiency and effectiveness of the program; and/or I have developed management subordinates for increased responsibility by making assignments which increased the subordinate’s exposure to executive staff; and/or I have provided public speaking opportunities, and which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action and established goals for management employees to enhance their efficiency and effectiveness through formal training. I have counseled subordinate management level employees on work performance, flow and accomplishments; and/or I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have developed new job training programs to increase the job knowledge of subordinate staff and trainees, improve operations or increase efficiency; and/or I have developed and implemented new employee reward structures, recognition practices or feedback systems; and/or I have decentralized responsibilities giving staff an opportunity for a meaningful role in accomplishing organizational objectives; and/or I have, within existing resources limitations, developed broad scale opportunities for subordinates to develop skills needed for career advancement. I have established goals and evaluation measurement tools for subordinate workforce; and/or I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have determined and implemented priorities and goals to accomplish specific objectives; and/or I have delegated appropriate tasks to subordinates with clear instructions as to authority, work objectives, deadlines, resources available and responsibilities; and/or I have recognized and rewarded employees for significant achievements or creative programming ideas; monitored subordinates’ work performance and offered suggestions for training to improve performance; and/or I have provided relevant information about the organization and career opportunities to assist in career development; and/or I have assisted employees in identifying skill needing improvement, then assisted in selecting activities, such as training courses, to build/improve skills. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).