Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education). Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 3 Do you have at least one year experience as a collection technician, preparator, or art handler at a museum or a commercial fine art company? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience using the official loan management standards established by the American Association of Museums? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you been responsible for distinguishing among artists' work, simply based on the appearance of the work? An example would be looking at three paintings, and making a determination (without additional information) which one was by Monet, which by Zhang Zeduan, and which by Raphael. Experience can refer to either an academic or work environment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following job titles (or their equivalents) is shown on your resume? If more than one applies, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required Registrar Collection Manager Museum specialist Curator Conservator Museum technician None of these job titles, or their equivalents 7 Complete the following sentence accurately: I have applied knowledge in the physical properties of, proper storage conditions for, and handling procedures for: Answer to this question is required Paintings Prints Drawings Photographs Sculpture Time-based media art Decorative arts Other media not mentioned here None of the above media 8 Have you ever had an ongoing role as an artwork preparatory or artwork courier? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Choose the museum collection management application(s) you have experience using for a week or more. Answer to this question is required MIMSY EMu The Museum System (TMS) None of these applications 10 Choose the application(s), if any, that you can use proficiently at this time. "Proficient" means that you can use the software daily, to complete a wide variety of tasks, with only occasional consultations of peers, supervisors, or reference manuals. Answer to this question is required The Museum System (TMS) Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Adobe Photoshop o Other applications not listed here o None of the above applications 11 Have you used FileMaker Pro on a daily basis, to complete a wide variety of tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you used software to manage and edit documents that were scanned from paper form? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you organized or handled a group of over ten (10) objects for travel as a loan, exhibition or special project? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Describe your level of experience communicating with senior managers and high ranking officials or corporate officers in a variety of ways, on a consistent basis, to create positive working relationships. Answer to this question is required o I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. o I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. o I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. o I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. o This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Select all of the responses that describe your experience over the past two years. Answer to this question is required Anticipated the need for a program or project and made recommendations to management on its development and implementation Led a project or group with little or no supervision or guidance. Took initiative to identify and improve a major work process or procedure. Encouraged or sought the involvement or participation of others in a group or activity. Led a project team or work group to ensure achievement of goals. Volunteered for a special project None of the above. 16 I have experience using Extensis Portfolio digital software imaging application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience packing, handling, and installing art works for a museum, cultural institution or other art organization. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Indicate those personnel with whom you have interacted, on a regular basis, as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Shipping agents Risk managers Legal counsel Conservators Curators Other museum professionals Transportation and crating companies None of these kinds of personnel View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.