Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have a least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 What experience do you have providing budget, financial tracking, personnel and procurement support to a major department or activity? Answer to this question is required Experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies), procuring a variety of goods and services and preparing personnel actions. Experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies) and procuring a variety of goods and services. Experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies). Experience tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies). Experience balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies). None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements identifies your highest level of experience performing duties involving program and/or financial analysis? Answer to this question is required I have performed program and/or financial analyses related to a project or program within my work unit. I have performed program and/or financial analyses related to a major division-level project or program beyond the scope of my immediate work unit. I have performed program and/or financial analyses related to a major agency or corporate program that required substantial cross-organizational communication, coordination and compromise. I have served as supervisor or leader of a team or staff responsible for providing financial analysis for agency-wide issues I have served as an advisor to senior agency or corporate managers requiring on-going program and/or financial analysis related to major agency or corporate business objectives None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience providing budget, financial tracking, grants management, personnel and procurement support to a major department or activity? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies), procuring a variety of goods and services and preparing personnel actions as it relates to Federal and grant funding. I have experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies) and procuring a variety of goods and services as it relates to Federal and grant funding. I have experience developing a budget, tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies) as it relates to Federal and grant funding. I have experience tracking income, balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies) as it relates to Federal and grant funding. I have experience balancing funds and reconciling accounts (resolving discrepancies) as it relates to Federal and grant funding. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience in planning an organization's budget, managing an organization's financial activities, and tracking/monitoring expenditures against a budget? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following types of financial reports have you prepared? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Managerial reports listing financial transactions and expense summaries. Managerial reports listing budget data vs. actual expenses. Budget proposals for special projects or grant proposals. Organizational or government budget submissions. Payroll projections. Cost/benefit analyses or 'what-if' scenarios. Cash flow projections. Formal accounting reports such as balance sheets or general ledger reports. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer. I have experience coordinating with central contracting office to ensure new procedures rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submissions to central contracting office. I have experience providing procurement briefings to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. 8 Which of the following procurement services functions have you performed (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have approved contracts/agreements, procurement actions (requisitions, purchase orders). I have prepared total contract packages for new equipment installations, equipment replacement, and recurring maintenance contracts. I have prepared detailed cost estimates for use in obtaining project funding and bid evaluations. I have procured a wide variety of specialized instrumentation, components, materials, supplies and services. I have applied knowledge of procurement and contracting procedures. I have interpreted and applied procurement regulations to use a Government credit card and generate requisitions to acquire hardware, software, other equipment and services. I have developed specifications and determine costs for procurement of equipment and services. I have established small business participation goals and developed practices to assist my organization in reach those goals. I have received education or training on procurement policies, procedures and techniques, but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 9 Which statement best describes your experience of exercising procurement or contracting authority under a formal delegation? Answer to this question is required I have held delegated procurement or limited contracting authority and executed purchases within delegated limits in accordance with applicable policy and procedures. I have performed procurement actions under the delegation of another official (e.g., prepared actions for review/approval) but did not hold delegated authority. I have supported procurement activities in an administrative capacity without delegated authority. I have No experience in this area. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.