Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience designing exhibits? Answer to this question is required I served as lead designer and/or led a design team in managing the design and production of museum exhibition projects. I served as lead designer on museum exhibition projects from concept through production. As a member of a design team, I served as lead designer on elements of museum exhibition or similar projects. As a member of a design team, I have designed elements of museum exhibitions or similar projects. I do not have experience performing this task. 3 Which statement best describes your level of experience in designing interpretive exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have worked as the lead designer responsible for creating exhibit design drawings and details for a complete design document package for contract fabrication bid and award. I have worked under the supervisor of a lead designer in creating exhibit design drawings and details for a complete design document package for contract fabrication bid and award. I was the designer for specific 2D and 3D design tasks that contributed to a complete exhibit design document package for contract fabrication bid and award. I have no experience designing interpretive exhibits. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience working with museum exhibit design contracts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for museum exhibit design contracts for a museum. I have managed exhibit design contracts though the life cycle of the exhibition for a museum. I have managed exhibit design contracts though the life cycle of the exhibition for an exhibit design firm. I have worked with others or assisted in managing exhibit design contracts. I have not experience managing exhibit design contracts. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design projects and developing specifications for products and supplies in accordance with established organizational policies and guidelines? Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design projects and develops specifications for products and supplies in accordance with established organizational policies and guidelines. I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design projects and develops specifications for products and supplies. I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work for exhibition design projects. I have experience preparing detailed scopes of work. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following software programs have you used to produce complete drawings for construction or fabrication for exhibitions or to manage projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required BIM software such as Vectorworks or Revit Vectorworks Revit 2D drafting software such as AutoCAD AutoCAD 3D design software such as Rhinocerous 3D or SketchUp SketchUp Rhinocerous 3D Solid Works None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your training and experience in producing graphics using Adobe Creative Suite software? Answer to this question is required I have training and experience in designing and producing graphics using other commercial visual design software. I have college-level training in Adobe Creative Suite software or at least one year of full-time professional experience designing and producing graphics using the programs. I have college-level training in Adobe Creative Suite software or at least one year of full-time professional experience producing graphics using the programs. I have trained others in using the software (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance with Adobe Creative Suite. I have college-level training in Adobe Creative Suite software but no professional experience designing and producing graphics. I do not possess any of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience overseeing the building of museum exhibits and ensuring exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design, and program goals are met. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing program and project design processes, production schedule and data, while consulting with informed individuals in project management field. I have experience attending a variety of meetings with the design, production, graphics, exhibits technology and services groups and leadership to coordinate all project plans, objectives and goals are on track to be met. I have experience performing quality reviews at regular intervals throughout the project to ensure exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design and program goals are on track to be met. I do not possess the experience described above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience developing exhibit production budgets and schedules? (Select only one answer). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates, schedules and for contracting experience preparing initial written scopes through solicitation and contract award, on-site inspections, and work approval. I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates, schedules and for contracting experience preparing initial written scopes through solicitation and contract award. I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates and schedules. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience planning, scheduling and coordinating exhibit projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience independently developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for major capital projects, coordinating multiple staff and contractors on major capital exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience, with supervisor support developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for complex exhibit projects, coordinating multiple staff and contractors on complex exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience independently developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for simple exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience, with supervisor support, developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for simple exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.