Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to lead and manage projects.** Led and managed multiple projects through the following actions: 1) using Project Management Life Cycle (PMLC) methodology; 2) ensuring integration of best practices in the planning, communications management, scope management, time management, cost management, quality control, HR management, risk management, and procurement management for all projects; and 3) creating and serving as the expert for others in the creation of Work Breakdown Structures (WBS), GANTT charts, and performance measurements. Answer to this question is required Led SEVERAL projects differing in scope relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in SEVERAL projects relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in A SINGLE project relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to lead strategic planning, program analysis, and problem solving.** Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program. This includes: 1) supporting major strategic planning, policy, and process development efforts, including the development and preparation of PMLC workflow diagrams process write-ups, and templates; 2) developing samples for managerial use within the organization; 3) conducting project process and deliverable quality reviews and audits; 4) providing project portfolio reporting and analysis, including preparation of reports, and review of project and portfolio performance metrics; 5) formulating project portfolio recommendations based on overall project and portfolio performance; 6) facilitating review meetings; and 7) ensuring currency of project portfolio databases. Answer to this question is required Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program including ALL of the duties listed above. Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the duties listed above. Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program including THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the duties listed above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to conduct business analyses.** The ability to understand the business needs of an agency/organization and relate those needs to technical requirements needed to define the solution. Planned, analyzed, and designed projects to meet organizational needs. In doing so: 1) conducted requirements analyses to define business requirements and processes, 2) synthesized, clarified, defined, and documented complex user requirements and technical requirements, 3) participated in program policy and process development, 4) worked with internal and external stakeholders, and others to identify and capture user requirements and expectations, 5) evaluated requirements and processes, and recommended feasible solutions,6) conducted data collection and analysis, 7) researched, analyzed, and provided technical advice and aid on projects, issues, and/or problems impacting operations, and 8) conducted and/or oversaw project process and deliverable quality reviews and audits. Answer to this question is required As a project management specialist, independently performed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a project management specialist, independently performed SEVEN (7) of the tasks listed above. As a project management specialist, independently performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to manage special projects and conduct management studies and reviews. Managed special projects and conducted management reviews and studies including: 1) identifying and collecting data from various sources; 2) evaluating information gathered; 3) preparing proposals, 4) formulating findings, conclusions and recommendations; and 5) presenting results. Answer to this question is required Independently managed and/or led numerous simultaneous highly complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups with conflicting goals, intricate or entrenched business processes, etc.) special projects AND management studies and reviews of issues impacting an entire ORGANIZATION/BUSINESS/AGENCY. This included performing ALL of the tasks listed above. Independently managed and/or led numerous simultaneous complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups, inefficient business processes, etc) special projects AND management studies and reviews of issues impacting multiple BUSINESS UNITS. This included performing ALL of the tasks listed above. Independently managed and/or led numerous complex (e.g., involving limited resources, multiple groups, inefficient business processes, etc) special projects AND/OR management studies and reviews of issues impacting an entire BUSINESS UNIT. This included performing ALL of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote various clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents related to operations management such as: 1) analytical documents, 2) statistical/analytical reports, 3) survey results and report findings, 4) study proposals, 5) strategic planning documents, 6) presentation materials, and 7) findings and recommendations. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, has written documents related to operations management for various audiences, including senior executives, managers, supervisors, and non-technical individuals. Independently created ALL of the document types listed above at a professional level. Has written documents related to operations management for various audiences. Independently or with minimal supervision created between FIVE (5) AND SIX (6) of the documents listed above at a professional level. Has written documents related to operations management for a specific audience. Independently or with minimal supervision created THREE (3) to FOUR (4) of the documents listed above at a professional level. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to build and maintain relationships with individuals from varying backgrounds and levels to provide consultation or liaison services. Developed and maintained professional relationships with internal and external entities. Networked with groups and organizations outside of the Library to stay current and knowledgeable about issues, practices, and trends in data analysis as related to service unit goals and activities. Served as a liaison with all levels of management and staff inside and outside the service unit regarding data analysis matters. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job in a lead role. I am regularly the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).