Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Knowledge of administrative concepts, principles, and practices in order to recommend changes in administrative policies and devise and establish procedures and office practices. Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing and analyzing a variety of office procedures and proposing recommendations for appropriate changes. I have limited experience applying administrative concepts, principles, and practices sufficient to operate as a clerical or administrative support person in an office. I have experience as a lead support person using a variety of secretarial, clerical or administrative practices and procedures. I have limited or no working experience as a lead clerical person using administrative concepts, principles and practices. I have experience as a lead administrative support person applying the full range of administrative concepts and principles including recommending and establishing procedures for the staff of an organization. I have no experience establishing or recommending office procedures or changes to an office. None of the above. 5 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 6 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to plan and organize to meet deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have assessed and improved the productivity, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations in the office to meet deadlines. I have determined the order of processing for a wide range of related office activities in order to meet deadlines. I have coordinated and scheduled a variety of related office activates to avoid conflicts and ensure that predetermined deadlines are met. I have planned daily work activities to meet deadlines. I have no experience in performing this task. 7 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required I routinely work with management officials to resolve records management or information resource issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I routinely work with internal managers to resolve records management or information resource issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised policies, procedures and processes and discussing alternatives. I routinely advise or participate in meetings with groups or individuals to address records management issues or problems. This includes developing a rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to office staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to external staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 8 From the following choices, please select the one that reflects your highest level of experience administering a time and attendance reporting system. Answer to this question is required I have maintained records of attendance, leave, and overtime authorized by my supervisor for subordinate staff members. I have entered time and attendance (T&A) records into automated timekeeping or payroll systems. I have advised and assisted employees, supervisors, and managers in completing time and attendance (T&A) forms and resolving errors concerning work schedules, premium pay and leave. I have been formally trained and designated timekeeper responsibilities for an organization of employees. I have been formally trained in time and attendance (T&A) recordkeeping, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have trained others on time and attendance rules and procedures. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience locating and summarizing information from electronic databases and/or manual records? Answer to this question is required I have conducted searches through databases and manual records in order to retrieve information from a limited number of sources and provided information to requestor in a standard format. I have conducted research in multiple electronic databases or manual records in order to locate, retrieve and manipulate data to meet the requirements of a variety of personnel with varying information needs and reporting formats, compiling and summarizing relevant information. None of the above. 11 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of responsibility related to resource management? Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget, and execution phases for an organization. I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget, and execution phases for a program. I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget, and execution phases for a project. I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget, and execution phases for multiple tasks. I have no experience related to programming, planning, budget, or execution phases. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience working effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.