Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 In addition tot he Basic Education requirement, do you have one year of specialized experience equal to or above the next lower grade level as described in the vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (or higher) with a major in archival science or bachelor's degree (or higher) with a major that includes 18 semester hours in archival science, history and/or in political science or government, and 12 semester hours in one or any combination of the following: archival science, history, American civilization, economics, political science, public administration, or government. I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least 30 semester hours of courses as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 3 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of supervising experience? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising or leading a group of professionals in a variety of work assignments, including archival acquisitions, processing, description, digitization, and reference services. Has experience in recruiting, hiring, and staff development. I have experience supervising or leading a group of professionals in a variety of work assignments, including archival acquisitions, processing, description, digitization, and reference services. I have some experience supervising or leading a group of professionals in a variety of work assignments, including archival acquisitions, processing, description, digitization, and reference services. I do not have experience listed above. 4 What has been your experience working in teams in a professional organizational setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked as part of a team. I have led unit or departmental teams. I have participated in company committees or projects. I have led company committees or task forces. I have participated in professional committees outside of my organization. I do not have experience doing any of the above. I have experience working with contractors on company projects. I have experience directing the work of contractors on company projects. 5 Which of the following computer software applications have you have used as part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Word Processing software (e.g., Word, WordPerfect) Spreadsheet software (e.g., Excel, Quattro Pro) Database management software (e.g., MS SQL Server, MS Access, Paradox, dBase) Digital imaging software (e.g., Photoshop) Museum Collections information systems (e.g., Argus, EMu, TMS) Archive Collections Management Systems (e.g. Archivists’ Toolkit, Archon) EAD Authoring Software (e.g. Xmetal, Oxygen) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Web authoring software (e.g., FrontPage, Macromedia) I do not have experience with any common office software applications. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience using multiple computer programs (including Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, and Adobe Photoshop) and archive and museum-related software tools (including EMu and Archivists’ Toolkit) in order to produce catalog records and finding aids for various types of archival collection including manuscripts, photos, and media? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have not had experience or training in performing this task. 7 Choose the answer that best describes your knowledge of records management rules, regulations and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have interpreted records management rules, regulations and procedures I have education or training in records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have followed guidance of supervisors in interpreting records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have interpreted records management rules, regulations and procedures as part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in records management rules, regulations and procedures. I have no knowledge of records management rules, regulations and procedures. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with processing archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation and digitization? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff members in the processing of archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation, digitization and maintaining associated documentation. I have processed archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation, digitization and maintaining associated documentation. I have experience processing archival or photographic collections in an archives or museum. I have not worked with archival or photographic collections. 9 Do you have experience managing archival collections in a database and producing finding aids? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in collecting and analyzing statistical data using software such as Excel, Access, and other computer database systems? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in using these types of computer-based tools to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have experience using these computer-based tools but am not able to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have limited experience using these computer-based tools. I have never used any data collection and analyzing computer-based tools. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience, education or training as it relates to archival theory, techniques, and practices? Answer to this question is required I have expert experience and education in archival processing and description, preservation techniques, and reference services. I have some experience and education in archival processing and description, preservation techniques, and reference services. I have training in archival processing, preservation techniques, and reference services but little or no hands-on experience. I have not had experience or training in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing archival collections and applying policies and procedures relative to development, establishment, administration, and long-range planning for the expansion, improvement, use, security, and stewardship of collections of historic significance? Answer to this question is required I have 6 years or more experience in creating and applying policies and procedures to provide for the care and maintenance of an archival collection as a regular part of my job. I have experience in managing day-to-day activities in an archives. I have provided for the care and maintenance of collections throughout a large museum or educational institution. I have completed college level courses and focused on the collections management practices of archives/museums/cultural institutions. None of the above 13 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing organizational procedures, workflows, or policies related to the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I have experience contributing to the development of organizational procedures, workflows, and or policies related to the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I have experience adhering to organizational procedures, workflows, and policies to ensure the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. I have do not have experience adhering with organizational procedures, workflows, and policies to ensure the professional, legal, and ethical treatment of archival materials. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with processing archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation and digitization? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed the processing of archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation, digitization and maintaining associated documentation. I have processed archival and photographic collections including accessioning, arrangement and description, preservation, digitization and maintaining associated documentation with assistance. I have experience processing archival or photographic collections in an archives or museum. I have not worked with archival or photographic collections. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.