Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 1 I qualify for the CG-4 Pathways Intern position based on the following: Answer to this question is required I have completed 2 full academic years of post-secondary education at an accredited college/university. I have 1 year of general work experience. I have a combination of both education and experience. None of the above. One (1) year of general experience in clerical, office, or other work responsibilities, demonstrating the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Grade: All Grades 1 I am currently enrolled in or accepted for enrollment as a degree-seeking student, taking at least a half-time academic, technical, or vocation course load in an accredited high school, technical/vocational school, 2 or 4 year college or university, graduate or professional school. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I currently have an overall cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.50 out of 4.0. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires a graduation date of May 2027 or later. Do you have a graduation date of May 2027 or later? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In the space provided below, please indicate when you anticipate to graduate (include month, day and year ). Please note: you must have a planned graduation date on or after the graduation date stated in the "Requirements" section to be eligible. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WILL REQUIRE THAT AT LEAST ONE DOCUMENT BE UPLOADED OR FAXED TO SUBSTANTIATE YOUR ELIGIBILITY. You must submit college transcripts (official or unofficial). If you are not a student, you must submit proof of enrollment (i.e., letter from the registrar's office or acceptance letter from an accredited educational institution). Your transcript must document the educational requirements for this position; i.e. a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5 out of 4.0 and the completion of 2 full academic years of post-high school study or attainment of an associate's degree by the time of appointment. Education must be from an accredited educational institution. Do you understand this requirement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 12 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).