Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have a valid, unexpired pesticide applicator's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience evaluating products and/or materials delivered by contractors to verify that quality standards were met? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Determined employees` work schedules Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored work performed for unsafe practices None of the above 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized signs that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my superior for problem identification and resolution. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health issues. None of the above. 6 Select the activities you have performed related to turf care. Answer to this question is required Recommended type of grass seed for specific location and purposes (e.g., cool versus warm). Recommended location to plant turf taking into account growing environment (e.g., shade versus sun). Cut turf to the proper height for optimum health and growing conditions Aerated turf De-thatched turf Applied fertilizer to turf None of the above 7 Select the objectives you have achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants. Answer to this question is required To encourage growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing) To remove disease To improve structure To remove safety hazards To improve or maintain aesthetics None of the above 8 Select the tasks you have performed to install seasonal displays and/or exhibits. Answer to this question is required Clearing weeds and existing plants Tilling the ground Amending soil for proper pH and nutrient deficiencies Preparing plants for optimal growth (e.g., address root-bound issues) Installing plants at proper spacing and depth Creating display labels for plants None of the above 9 Which activities have you performed to evaluate and prepare soil for planting? Answer to this question is required Taking soil samples for testing Testing soil pH or mineral content Adjusting pH levels of soil Identifying plant pathogens Identifying drainage issues None of the above 10 Select the instructions you have read and interpreted to complete gardening assignments. Answer to this question is required Equipment operation manuals Pesticide labels Fertilizer mixing instructions Manufacture instructions (for chemicals, etc.) None of the above 11 Select the vehicles you have operated to support gardening tasks. Answer to this question is required Forklift Utility vehicle (e.g., gators) Work vehicles (e.g., cargo van, dump truck, pickup truck, box truck, step vans) Tractor None of the above 12 Select the safety activities you have performed in a professional setting on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have attended safety classes to learn safety rules, regulations, and procedures. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required (e.g., ear protection when using loud equipment). I have reminded coworkers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of others in addition to me when performing work tasks (e.g., turn off blower while pedestrians pass). I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. I have trained others on proper equipment handling and other safety techniques to perform work assignments. None of the above. 13 Select the safety activities you have performed in a professional setting on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have attended safety classes to learn safety rules, regulations, and procedures. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required (e.g., ear protection when using loud equipment). I have reminded coworkers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of others in addition to me when performing work tasks (e.g., turn off blower while pedestrians pass). I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. I have trained others on proper equipment handling and other safety techniques to perform work assignments. None of the above. 14 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Access Adobe Acrobat Professional None of the above 15 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform gardening work. Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 16 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with operational plans which includes reading blueprints, landscape designs, statements of work, etc. Answer to this question is required I have independently developed operational plans within the framework of established gardening practices. I have assisted senior staff in the development of operational plans. I have made recommendations or suggestions to modify existing operational plans. I have implemented operational plans developed by others. I have no experience reviewing or developing operational plans. 17 What is your highest level of supervisory responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Led a workforce of persons with cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences. Developed plans to increase employee potential. Developed performance plans and monitored employee performance; prepared performance improvement plans. Recognized and encouraged staff contributions. Led a workforce toward the development and accomplishment of long-term goals. Improved workforce productivity, cooperation, efficiency, stability, safety, and security. Promoted teamwork to accomplish the objectives of the organization and maintain a professional workforce. Provided leadership that promoted teamwork, communication, cooperation, and increased productivity among employees. Provided an open-door policy for the discussion of work issues and concerns. Provided leadership, built employee trust, created and maintained a positive, efficient, safe and stable work environment. None of the above. 18 Choose the administrative tasks that you performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for, or in collaboration with, subordinates. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Made hiring or promotion recommendations or decisions. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Recommended or implemented disciplinary actions. None of the above. 19 Please describe your experience leading and/or supervising employees performing horticulture science or related plant science work. Maximum length of 4000 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Select the types of duties you performed as a horticulturist. Answer to this question is required Searched for new plants suitable for cultivation. Communicated with and advised the general public on matters concerning the classification and botanical nomenclature of cultivated plants. Performed original research on the description of cultivated plants and their history of particular regions in horticultural floras. Recorded new plant introductions. Maintained databases of cultivated plants. Curated horticultural collections of living specimens. None of the above. 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.