Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 2 Do you possess journey-level woodcrafting or carpentry skills? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the types of millwork you have fabricated to meet specifications. Answer to this question is required Cabinets Shelving units Desks Molding (e.g., crown molding, chair rail) Chairs Picture frames Doors Conference tables None of the above 4 Do you have experience creating exact replicas of wood work (e.g., chairs, doors) to maintain historical relevance/architectural style when replacing damaged items? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing. Choose all that apply. Answer to this question is required Rafters Doors (metal and wood) Windows Paneling Staircases Baseboards Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Inlay work Studs (metal and wood) Drywall Acoustic ceilings None of the above 6 What source documents and/or instructions and references have you used to ensure compliance with building codes, objectives, timeliness, and quality of workmanship? Answer to this question is required Building plans Building codes Blueprints Drawings Sketches Written instructions Work orders Specifications None of the above 7 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience interpreting designer's blueprints to determine placement for walls, cabinets, furniture, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which of the following tools do you have experience using regularly? Answer to this question is required Circular saws Hammer-drills Orbital sawzall Rotary hammers Driver/drills Portable electric band saws Routers Table saws Variable speed jig-saw Portable band saw Band saws Spiral saws Bench grinder Machine hacksaw Laser levels Machine planer Shapers Jointures None of the above 10 Have you operated pneumatic tools (e.g., clamp, floor nailer, air sander) following safety procedures to perform wood crafter assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience operating Computer Numerical Control (CNC) equipment? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training on operating CNC equipment but have not yet applied it to completing professional craft work. I have operated CNC equipment to complete professional craft work under close supervision or with assistance from other workers. I have independently operated CNC equipment to achieve desired results. I have provided guidance and instruction to others on how to operate CNC equipment. None of the above 12 From the following list, select the types of woodworking products you have used on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes Solid surfaces None of the above 13 Do you have experience selecting wood species to match the appearance of wood items when making repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which materials do you have experience selecting for specific projects in order to achieve insulator project goals? Answer to this question is required Wood/lumber Adhesives (e.g., contact adhesives, silicon) Fasteners (e.g., nails, screws) Plastics Flooring Hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Wall material (e.g., drywall, metal studs) None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 16 Select the types of tools you have operated independently to perform wood crafter activities. Answer to this question is required Precise measuring tools (e.g., micrometer, protractor) Basic hand tools (e.g., plane, variable speed drill, hand saw) Advanced hand power tools (e.g., moulder, mortiser, table saw, routers, domino) Pneumatic tools (e.g., clamps, air sanders) None of the above 17 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted other senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.