Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your ability to develop and apply financial management techniques. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training developing and applying financial management techniques. I have completed formal education or training in financial management techniques, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and applied financial management techniques on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have developed and applied financial management techniques as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Developing and applying financial management techniques has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in developing and applying financial management techniques and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with budget management? Answer to this question is required I have prepared a budget for a discrete program or project. I have adhered to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have prepared a budget for an office. I have adhered to a budget for an office. I have prepared a budget for a division. I have adhered to a budget for a division. I have no practical experience with budget management. 3 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience preparing briefing notes, reports, or other written documents to communicate pertinent program issues, policies and recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 6 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 7 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impacts to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operation, provided advice on their impacts to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 9 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 11 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 12 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in building effective, cohesive teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education in forming effective, cohesive teams. I have education in forming effective, cohesive teams, but have not performed it on the job. I have formed effective, cohesive teams under close supervision from a supervisor or a more senior official. I have routinely and independently formed effective, cohesive teams. I am highly skilled at forming effective, cohesive teams. I have trained or overseen others in this activity or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in reviewing work performed by others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education reviewing work performed by others. I some experience reviewing work performed by others. I have performed tasks that involved reviewing work performed by others with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently reviewed work performed by others. I am highly skilled at reviewing work performed by others. I have trained or overseen others in this activity or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 14 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of these tasks due to my expertise in these areas. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed them independently and usually without the assistance from a supervisor. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing these tasks but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing these tasks. 15 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have assisted in administering team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I have administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders under close supervision. I have independently administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. I am considered an expert in training and developing new or junior employees. I have trained others in this activity and/or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 16 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.