Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Do you have a confined space certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Do you have a current Asbestos Abatement Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Do you possess the knowledge to safely and legally remove/alter friable and non-friable asbestos, lead paint and erect protective enclosures, encapsulate asbestos, erect clean rooms, provide negative air, dispose of asbestos, dispose of lead, and abide by regulations governing these activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do&nbsp;you possess the skill required to safely operate and maintain asbestos- related tools and place asbestos related materials, i.e., mister or amended water, high efficiency particulate abatement air (HEPA) vacuums and filtering systems, drill attachments, negative air machines, self- contained breathing apparatus, fit-tested respirators and sampling tools.? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience removing and disposing of hazardous materials, such as asbestos and lead? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of an insulation worker? Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to journeymen performing insulation work such as gathering needed materials/tools to complete a project and cleaning up areas. I have performed insulations for structures with flat, square, or cylindrical surfaces, straight runs, and regular curves (e.g., pipes, boilers, ducts). I have performed insulations for structures with irregular shaped surfaces (e.g., heaters, valves). I have performed finishing work to ensure exposed materials visually match the environment and are aesthetically pleasing. None of the above 8 Do you have experience with periodic surveillance of known hazardous materials, lead paint surfaces, and asbestos-containing materials as described in AHERA and best management practices (e.g. building surveys or periodic surveillance)? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Select the insulation techniques you have performed. Answer to this question is required Blew sound or heat insulation into closed spaces Molded sections of insulation to enclose unique or unusual structures Fabricated boxes to cover groups of piping elements, enclosed fittings, and flanges Installed vapor barriers to ensure insulation was vapor/moisture proof None of the above 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating containments for hazardous insulation materials (i.e., lead paint and/or asbestos)? Answer to this question is required I have no education or training related to containments for hazardous insulation materials. I have completed education or training related to containments for hazardous insulation materials but I have not yet applied it on the job. I have built negative pressure enclosures with engineering controls such as microtraps and monometers. I have designed and built negative pressure enclosures. 11 Do you have experience evaluating the characteristics of the job and surrounding environment (e.g., room layout) to design a containment for lead paint and/or asbestos removal that conforms to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Which activities related to asbestos removal have you performed? Answer to this question is required Built containment structures. Removed asbestos using wet methods. Bagged and sealed removed insulation materials. Marked asbestos bags with the removal date, location, and contents. Cleaned abatement/containment area during and after asbestos removal, as well as surrounding areas including but not limited to external containment, restricted areas, and adjacent surfaces. Inspected abatement/containment area to ensure removal was complete. Installed and used a glove bag system. None of the above 13 Select the confined spaces in which you have worked.&nbsp; Answer only if you have used gas meters &nbsp;in these spaces. Answer to this question is required Tunnels Crawl spaces/interstitial spaces Under the floor Attics Shafts/vertical chases Air handlers, boilers, or tanks Manholes and/or trenches None of the above 14 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, and removing insulation materials? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience installing, maintaining, or removing insulation materials. I have completed training or education related to installing, maintaining, or removing insulation materials but have not yet applied it on the job. I have installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials under close supervision. I have independently installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials. 15 Do you have experience identifying insulation materials with the correct thickness and density specified for a project? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Select the surfaces and objects on which you have installed insulation materials. Answer to this question is required Air ducts Heaters Generators Refrigeration units Piping systems Valves Fittings Flanges Industrial boilers Tanks Evaporators None of the above 17 Do you have experience calibrating pumps for specific use (e.g., low volume versus high volume samples)? Answer to this question is required Yes 17.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 18 Select the equipment you have operated independently when performing insulation work. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required HEPA vacuum Negative air machines (e.g., Micro Trap) Air quality monitor Temperature monitoring equipment None of the above 19 Select the hand tools you have used to install insulation. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Scissor Divider Roller Notcher Saw (i.e., hand saw, pruning saw) Trowel Metal break Metal sheer Banding tools Power tools (drills, band saw, reciprocating saws, screw gun) None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.