Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Operating Accountant must prepare financial documents and reports to maintain the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have composed documents to area personnel about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written technical requirements for accounting; and/or I have prepared a memorandum recommending changes for the utilization of available resources; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals within the agency; and/or I have developed or updated policies or Institution Supplements; and/or I have prepared Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) narratives for submission to headquarters for review; and/or I have developed action plans for staff and others. I have prepared written analysis of financial statements and/or operations; and/or I have prepared responses to Finance Branch memorandums and audit guidance memorandums that required detailed accounting information; and/or I have assembled financial reports to supply management with a written assessment of operations; and/or I have prepared written requests for write-off’s and/or journal entries and provided clear explanations that fully explained the problem and corrective action needed to fix the problem; and/or I have drafted recommendations for changes to policy that have been implemented into policy used by the agency. I have written determinations and findings that documented actions taken with vendors; and/or I have made recommendations for Statements of Work to technical staff; and/or I have responded in writing to public inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have developed organizational procedures; and/or I have recommended and implemented accounting policies affecting the agency; and/or I have written fund status reports that reflected the budget combined with cost reports and special ratios where appropriate through utilization of the Unified Financial Management System (UFMS). None of the above. 4 The Operating Accountant must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of Budget and Finance (B&F) projects to the Salaries and Expenses (S&E) appropriation and closed Budget and Finance (B&F) projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. I have reviewed payment vouchers, ensuring payments were made in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act; and/or I have monitored and detected trends that would create major weaknesses in the accounting system; and/or I have prepared lesson plans and conducted training on accounting issues; and/or I have managed accounts payable and receivable; and/or I have performed prompt payment quality control reviews. I have researched issues for management and program office personnel regarding accounting regulations; and/or I have interpreted accounting report statements and data to identify deviations from plans; and/or I have applied Federal and agency regulations in verifying monthly disbursements; and/or I have researched Comptroller General decisions to determine employee’s travel entitlements. None of the above. 5 The Operating Accountant must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed prior year entries and submitted requests to Headquarters or Regional Office outlining the corrective action needed to account for the effect on the prior year financial statements; and/or I have participated in audits by reviewing/evaluating whether or not the accounting information was processed within the guidelines provided for in policy; and/or I have collected information from the automated accounting system in order to formulate responses to Finance Branch. I have performed monthly verification of cash receipts and disbursement account balances; and/or I have processed, maintained, and reconciled inmate accounts; and/or I have met with management officials to evaluate financial data and information derived from statements and reports; and/or I have developed new procedures for reporting or reconciling accounting information; and/or I have developed proof-checks for a new automated accounting system. I have reviewed statements of difference to identify problem areas; and/or I have analyzed overhead allocations to determine if corrective measures were needed; and/or I have prepared and presented price projections for the fiscal year; and/or I have reviewed cost center plans to ensure they met budget restrictions. None of the above. 6 The Operating Accountant must be knowledgeable in accounting principles, theories, and techniques to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have reviewed the accuracy of recorded sales; and/or I have reviewed validity for cost of sales; and/or I have ensured proper validation for inventory control; and/or I have developed and monitored a budget plan; and/or I have applied general accounting principles to distinguish between capital leases and operating leases. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective actions were needed. I have identified errors in the Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) report and took corrective action; and/or I have reviewed general ledgers to ensure account balances were correct; and/or I have compiled accounting report statements by eliminating discrepancies; and/or I have determined costs used to forecast expenditures for quarter or year; and/or I have resolved cash differences identified in the proof-checks; and/or I have identified trend in late payments from vendors and took corrective action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).