Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess the ability to interact with individuals tactfully and effectively at many levels, both internal and external to the agency. Contacts are for the purpose of providing information, fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and give or receive guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations. He/she will independently handle a variety of incoming calls or refer callers to the appropriate party for assistance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a division/branch/office retreat; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to assist supervisors in completing projects in a timely manner; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete assignments; and/or I have provided employment information as a representative at a recruitment function or job fair; and/or I have questioned applicants to assess their employment eligibility. I have explained leave procedures; and/or I have researched and provided responses to inquiries on technical issues; and/or I have received calls and took appropriate action independently rather than forwarding caller to others for assistance; and/or I have successfully coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete non-routine assignments; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have participated in a workforce utilization meeting by providing updates and feedback. I have researched and verbally responded to requests for information from staff, agency personnel, or the public independently; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries; and/or I have explained agency policies to newly hired employees; and/or I have advised management of program changes and potential impact; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures; and/or I have made oral presentations during training seminars. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Support Coordinator composes a variety of correspondences on various issues and subjects at all levels both internal and external to the agency. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. Additionally, he/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity, content, grammatical correctness, and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed sensitive correspondence for conformance with regulations, grammar, and format, returning to the originator for corrections; and/or I have prepared a reference guide/handbook/instructional booklet to be used by staff; and/or I have compiled, designed, and prepared all handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meetings. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have, as instructed, prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. I have reviewed non-sensitive correspondence prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar, and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems to be able to run reports from various systems, analyze the data, and provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed/assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters of Microsoft systems to enter data and run reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. I have entered and retrieved data using various Microsoft systems; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have retrieved and researched information from the internet and intranet (i.e., Sallyport). I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Support Coordinator must be able to organize the workflow of the clerical and administrative support functions/personnel. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning, and organizing workload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations to supervisor concerning operational procedures regarding administrative support functions; and/or I have requested assistance in resolving conflict within the department; and/or I have assisted the supervisor in planning for future resources (i.e., office supplies, staffing, and work assignment changes). I have independently reviewed and assigned correspondence to the appropriate subject matter expert (SME) for response; and/or I have coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures to ensure all required information is received in a timely manner; and/or I have established and maintained a filing system; and/or I have reviewed all supporting documents for travel requests forwarded to the office for approval; and/or I have coordinated all mandatory training to ensure that all staff have completed required training. I have organized a rotation of duties within the branch in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized telework and compressed work schedule requests for the office; and/or I have assisted co-worker with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines; and/or I have requested training for co-workers based on identified training needs with the department; and/or I have screened material prior to distribution for suspense dates establishing controls and following up. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).