Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 12 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;have experience incorporating sustainability strategies into planning documentation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select all of the following certifications you possess: Answer to this question is required I am a registered architect I am a member of the AIA I am a registered landscape architect I am a member of the ASLA I am a certified community planner from the APA I am a certified planner from the AICP I am a registered LEED accredited professional I have a professional engineer (PE) license I do not possess any of the registration or certifications above 3 Select all tasks you have completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project or program management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects or programs Established timelines and milestones for a project or programs Developed and or led agency- or firm-wide programs Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project or program progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects or programs Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals’ performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 4 From the list below, select the project planning activities you have performed? Answer to this question is required Producing construction project site analysis documentation such as layouts and preliminary design concepts. Developing economic analysis of alternatives to evaluate options for construction projects based on cost, risks, and benefits. Conducting feasibility studies and cost analyses for renovation, alteration, rehabilitation and/or construction of buildings. Developing initial parametric cost and timeline estimates for construction, renovation, and/or alteration projects. Providing leadership of construction project scope, schedule, and budget in the early development phases. Recommending strategies and solutions for facilities, space and/or land use. None of the above. 5 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 6 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval. Justified budgetary expenses. Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions. Completed a construction project within budget limitations. None of the above 7 Do you have experience preparing construction data forms (e.g., DD Form 1391, AOC Form 1391, or other similar documents) for the purpose of documenting project scope, cost, requirements and justifications in support of funding requests for construction projects to Congress? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports as part of completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products I have written master planning documents for a large client with multiple facilities and campuses I have written documents that are nationally recognized as being significant in their field None of the above 9 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 10 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 11 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected Officials and their staff Local Agencies Federal Agencies External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 12 In which stages of design have you participated in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Archival research and historic record reviews Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents Construction administration and project closeout None of the above 13 I have developed a design for a historically significant monumental building. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Have you independently performed constructability analysis of designs for building renovation projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the individuals who developed designs that you reviewed. Answer to this question is required Peers in the same discipline as myself Peers from a different discipline than myself Subordinates Contractors None of the above 16 For which stages of construction document development have you coordinated design reviews from other engineering disciplines? Answer to this question is required Schematic design development 50% design development 100% design developed Check-back (i.e., pre-final submission review) Submission of final documents I have not coordinated design reviews from other disciplines 17 Select the reasons you suggested changes to designs developed by others. Answer to this question is required To comply with codes To comply with agency-specific design standards or regulations To improve constructability To improve facility maintenance To improve facility operations To meet programming or client objectives To correct a design error I have not reviewed designs developed by others 18 What is the highest construction value for a project that you designed? Answer to this question is required Less than $5 million $5 million to $10 million More than $10 million I do not have experience designing projects 19 Which activities have you performed related to space design and planning? Answer to this question is required Analyzing requirements Developing cost estimates Validating contract requirements Evaluating schedules Evaluating feasibility of project timelines None of the above 20 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant monumental building? Answer to this question is required Developed technical specifications Developed designs within preservation policy guidelines Developed general provisions (e.g. client needs, restrictions and limitations None of the above 21 Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical evaluations of contractor proposals, recommending a pre-negotiation position for contracts, and assisting with contract negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Which types of appropriations have you used to fund contracts? Answer to this question is required Annual Multi-Year No-Year (funds remain available until expended with no fiscal-year limitation) None of the above 23 Select the project planning activities you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Identified project requirements Developed project plans Created project schedules and timelines Developed programming documents Developed project specifications Reviewed construction documents Coordinated engineering consultant's documents for inclusion in construction documents Inspected completed work products None of the above 24 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing project schedules? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a full-time scheduler for my organization and developed comprehensive planning, design, and/or construction schedules that were logic driven and resource loaded. I have developed my own project schedules. I have worked closely with a scheduler or senior staff to develop and update schedules for projects under my management. I have adhered to schedules developed by others. None of the above. 25 Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing and preparing space planning documentation for major capital projects: Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 26 Have you developed a safety plan to guide project implementation following Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) regulations and standards? Answer to this question is required Yes No 27 Select the project management software that you have used to develop and monitor a project plan. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Project Primavera Basecamp OneDesk None of the above 28 Do you have a current Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR) certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 29 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have independently administered contracts of a less complex nature [e.g., actions under simplified acquisition procedures (SAP), mandatory sources of supply]. I have independently administered contracts of a complex nature [e.g., contracts with multi-year schedules, Major System Acquisitions (MSAs)] until final delivery and payments were completed and the contract was closed and retired or until termination actions were completed. I have been granted a contracting warrant and functioned as a contracting officer for construction contracts. 30 Have you led design charrettes to develop a scope of work or program with multiple disciplinary design professionals, owners/clients and other project stakeholders present? Answer to this question is required Yes No 31 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 32 Have you presented space planning and design plans and proposals to congressional committees and members and/or higher level management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 33 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 33.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.