Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Senior Correctional Programs Specialists must be able to converse effectively with all types of people within the agency such as Central Office and Regional Administrators, Institutional Managers, Supervisors and line staff in various program related areas. They are required to communicate with judicial and congressional contacts as called upon. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and presented a briefing during an institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. As a representative of the agency, I have given a presentation to civic or community organizations; and/or I have communicated with federal officials such as U.S. Marshals regarding inmate cases; and/or I have provided formal training to officials outside the agency. I have negotiated legal exchanges or custody with non-federal and federal agencies; and/or I have served as liaison with the U.S. Parole Commission regarding interpreting pre-sentence reports and other official documents, etc.; and/or I have calmed distraught inmate family members when problems arise regarding sentencing/classification/designation, etc.; and/or I have conducted sessions/presentations for executive level employees. I have interviewed staff and inmates while investigating administrative and disciplinary incidents; and/or I have directed a panel interviewing applicants; and/or I have interviewed employees while investigating an incident. None of the above. 5 Senior Correctional Programs Specialists will be required to prepare correspondence pertaining to sensitive and difficult correctional program areas. They must have sound writing abilities and be able to compose letters, memoranda and reports for a variety of administrative, congressional and judicial levels. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by peers; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter. I have composed written correspondence for general population inmates; and/or I have ensured proper documentation was available to support the recommendations made for inmate placement requirements; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have prepared strategic plans for the department; and/or I have prepared technical reports for supervisory levels as they relate to congressional and/or judicial inquiries. I have compiled, written and edited information from various sources into a report for Executive Staff; and/or I have composed correspondence for inmates with special security concerns, ensuring that proper documentation was available to support recommendations particularly as they relate to designation and redesignation placement. I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have developed and/or edited articles/information which was posted on a national web-site. I have initiated complex written reports for congressional and/or judicial levels; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. None of the above. 6 Senior Correctional Programs Specialists will be required to provide advice in a variety of correctional program areas (to include unit and case management, inmate systems and CIMS areas). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served in a Case Management Coordinator or Inmate Systems Manager position; and/or I have interpreted/applied policy and procedures related to administrative remedies, transfer requests and CIM clearances; and/or I have reviewed key indicators and other information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations and made recommendations accordingly. I have evaluated available information to determine appropriate inmate designation to a facility; and/or i have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve issues; and/or I have gathered data and responded accurately on short notice (i.e., to a court). I have updated operations memorandums/institution supplements as directed by changes in law; and/or I have provided training to unit management staff on the general application of correctional programs policy, such as custody classification, Central Inmate Monitoring, Inmate Program Review. I have conducted a portion of a research project by collecting data and organizing information to be used by others; and/or I have conducted management surveys and research projects; and/or I have served on a program review team or coordinated perpetual audits to ensure policy compliance; and/or I have prepared custody classification forms and/or made referrals for inmates; and/or I have prepared inmate transfer referrals. None of the above. 7 Senior Correctional Programs Specialists are responsible for being knowledgeable in a variety of unit and case management areas. They must be able to plan, coordinate and evaluate programs necessary in correctional program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided executive and managerial staff advice as it related to correctional program functions; and/or I have participated in program reviews in a correctional program area; and/or I have assisted in administrative functions of correctional programs; and/or I have conducted visual/pat and/or electronic searches for contraband; and/or I have written incident reports after an inmate disturbance or after observing unusual behavior by an inmates. I have successfully led a management component in correctional programs within a correctional environment (i.e., department head, Regional Specialist, trainer, facilitator etc.); and/or I have served as a technical expert in case/unit management issues and reported directly to the Executive Staff of an institution; and/or I have monitored Residential Reentry Center (RRC) utilization rates for region, providing direction for institution staff. I have performed functions in case management and program areas for a Federal Correctional Institution or higher level; and/or I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have performed re-designations/designations for facilities assigned to a specific region; and/or I have demonstrated a thorough understanding of special program requirements for specific population. I have served as a program coordinator for Inmate Financial Responsibility Program (IFRP), release preparation, Victim Witness Program (VWP), etc. and reported directly to the Executive Staff of an institution; and/or I have facilitated a training course on specialized case/unit management functions or requirements; and/or I have read various laws and/or regulations and made a determination of the need for additional policy. None of the above. 8 Senior Correctional Programs Specialists will be responsible for staff assist visits and providing advice to various management and line staff levels in a correctional setting. A thorough understanding of the components of correctional program and institutional functions is necessary. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed the Inmate Administrative Remedy Program; and/or I have served on committee charged with the responsibility of developing and implementing a variety of correctional programs and projects; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers. I have reviewed contingency plans following an emergency; and/or I have maintained existing contingency plans; and/or I have submitted plans as directed; and/or I have assisted in leading a mock scenario; and/or I have served in a supervisory role or served in various program disciplines within a correctional institution. While on a staff assist visit, I have provided correctional program training to subordinate staff; and/or I have ordered a lock down after inmates became disruptive and/or during a work stoppage; and/or I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of escape posts and dispatching officers; and/or I have debriefed staff after a serious situation. I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institution; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution/local policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have led a mock exercise/scenario (i.e., hostage situation, natural disaster, work strike); and/or I have participated in management decisions as a department head in an institution; and/or in a department head capacity, I have provided advice or guidance in various correctional program areas (i.e., religious services, unit management, etc.). None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).