Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Applicants MUST meet one of the below listed basic qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education OR combination of education and experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A) I have completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in Architecture or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, AND (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. B) I have a degree in architectural engineering and my completed course work in architectural engineering provided knowledge, skills, and abilities (covering function, aesthetics, site, structure, economics, mechanical-electrical, and other engineering problems related to the design and construction of buildings primarily intended to house human beings) substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in Choice A above. C) I have college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings, AND I have 1 year of experience in an architect`s office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of experience is required. D) I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 1 Based on your review of the basic qualifications listed ABOVE, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required A B C D Note: All applicants WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you will lose consideration for this position. 2 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized architectural experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 3 Please indicate the position title(s), organization, and dates of employment where you acquired the necessary specialized experience and/or the dates, name of the college / univeristy, and major field of study where you acquired the educational requirements. (Do not paste your resume here.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Select the choice that BEST describes your highest level of experience analyzing architectural drawings, plans, designs, specifications, and exhibits for compliance with established codes and regulations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 5 Which of the following design strategies have you regularly followed in the process of designing a new facility? Answer to this question is required Applied architectural aspects of design strategies for specific locations. Implemented lessons learned from previous architectural design strategies and projects. Worked on multiple architectural and landscape design strategies. Established and implemented specific architectural and landscape designs for projects. Conducted on-site architectural workshops. Created, analyzed, and tested multiple architectural and landscape designs. Completed rigorous technical reviews for architectural and landscape design projects. Required peer review early in the process of designing a new facility. Set milestones for concept approval and refinement. Used Building Information Modeling (BIM) for Life Cycle Cost Analysis. Evaluated designs. None of the above. 6 Which of the following tasks describes your experience in architecture and design? Answer to this question is required Evaluating the relationship among, and interactions of, image, function, space, technology, environment, and materials. Using computer-aided design and drafting technology to create and produce design documents, or rendering sketches and drawings by hand. Ensuring technical adequacy and quality of all architectural functions for all projects. Reviewing architectural and engineering contract documents at all major stages for planning principles, functional requirements, maintainability, durability, and constructability. None of the above. 7 From the following list of professional skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Provided authoritative interpretations of guidelines and practices used in the design and construction of new facilities or the repair, restoration, and alteration of existing facilities. Served as an architectural consultant, and provided expertise in developing project specifications and design criteria for major architectural and construction projects involving office buildings and public facilities. Conducted investigations and studies to formulate and present special reports and formal briefings concerning the status and adequacy of agency architectural and construction projects (i.e., from the preliminary planning stage through project completion). Provided expertise and recommendations to other engineers and architects on complex or unusual architectural designs, issues, and situations. Interpreted and explained advanced concepts and diverse information in related design professions such as landscape architecture or engineering science disciplines (e.g., mechanical, electrical, structural, safety, and civil). Evaluated, advised on, and incorporated latest developments in the design and construction of office and public buildings into agency policy requirements and program objectives for design and construction activities. Managed integration of sustainable design features and implementation of LEED certification in large complex and highly technical projects. Used Earned Value Management as a means of tracking and evaluating project progress. Managed commissioning activities of newly constructed buildings. Participated on Architectural and Engineering Selection Boards. Reviewed building plans and specifications for adequacy of architectural provisions in accordance with the International Building Code. Evaluated Cost proposals to ensure all elements are allowable, reasonable, and allocable. Reviewed building plans and specifications for compliance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code. None of the above. 8 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of experience reviewing design calculations, cost estimates, analyses, drawings, and specifications to ensure compliance with project requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 9 Which tasks have you performed as part of your project management responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Review designs for compliance with U.S. building codes and standards. Inspect construction for compliance with local codes and U.S. regulations. Review and update existing organization-specific codes and standards. Review foreign codes and standards for comparison to U.S. standards and codes. Evaluate engineering programs and projects for consistency with U.S. codes and EPA standards. Develop or author code or standard language. Serve on national codes / standards panels or committees. None of the above. 10 Which topics have you developed policy for or provided guidance to senior officials? Answer to this question is required Project integration Project funding Prioritization Project scheduling Quality assurance None of the above 11 Which areas of architecture have you worked? Answer to this question is required Planning Programming Design Technical production Construction Management or administration None of the above 12 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on issues where there are conflicting positions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 13 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Disciplinary action Awards Conflict resolution Coaching and/or counseling Labor relations Managing diversity Employee development None of the above 14 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 15 Which tasks related to contracting have you performed in an international setting? Answer to this question is required Written contract scope(s) of work Determining government contract estimates Selecting private contractors to perform work Managing private contractors for the duration of a contract Performing quality assurance audits / reviews Reviewing and approving payments to contractors Approves, rejects, or changes contract to ensure adherence with established specifications None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.