Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. 3 Ability to perform program support and administration for a career development program.** Supported planning, coordination and implementation of one or more career development programs. A career development program helps program participants to improve professional skills and includes career planning and readiness activities; examples include internship, fellowship, and professional development programs for students in higher education. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed ALL of the following administrative activities for a program. Performed tasks relatively independently, requiring little oversight or supervision for a career development program: 1) facilitated and/or hosted online meetings for program participants (e.g., using Zoom or Teams), 2) provided administrative support to a program supervisor or manager (e.g., scheduling meetings and coordinating meeting logistics), 3) tracked administrative tasks and deadlines, 4) established and/or revised administrative processes for a program (e.g., onboarding new program participants or updating a standard operating procedure, 5) assisted in tracking a program schedule, 6) provided both written and verbal guidance to program participants and other stakeholders, and 7) maintained a website, wiki, or other online platform to provide key information about the career development program to participants. Routinely performed #1 THROUGH 6 of the above administrative activities for a career development program. Performed tasks relatively independently, requiring little oversight or supervision. Routinely performed #1 THROUGH 5 of the above administrative activities for a career development program. Performed tasks relatively independently, requiring little oversight or supervision. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide liaison services.** Served as a liaison of an organization to various stakeholders, performing duties that included: 1) sharing information, 2) delivering presentations, 3) developing and maintaining cooperative relationships, &nbsp;and 4) facilitating discussions to meet organizational goals in a collaborative and timely manner. Answer to this question is required Served as a liaison for an organization, and performed ALL of the above-related tasks to meet organizational goals. Worked with managers, experts and peers. Served as a liaison for an organization, and performed 1 THROUGH 3 of the above-related tasks to meet organizational goals. Worked with experts and peers. Served as a liaison for an organization, and performed 1 THROUGH 3 of the above-related tasks to meet organizational goals. Worked with peers. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Utilized technology to support administrative work for an organization, demonstrating proficiency in the following tools: 1) Microsoft Word, 2) Microsoft Outlook, 3) Microsoft Excel, 4) Microsoft Teams and/or Zoom, 5) other collaboration software (e.g., Atlassian Confluence or Microsoft SharePoint, and 6) project management software (e.g., Microsoft Planner). Answer to this question is required Independently used ALL of the above technologies to provide administrative support for an office, demonstrated intermediate to advanced levels of proficiency with each tool. Used the above technology tools 1) THROUGH 4) AND ANY of tools 5) THROUGH 6) to provide administrative support for an office, demonstrated at least a basic to intermediate level of proficiency with each tool. Used the above technology tools 1) THROUGH 4) to provide administrative support for an office, demonstrated at least a basic level proficiency for each tool. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing and copyedit documents.** Prepared written documentation to transfer administrative information about concepts, products, services, and/or results to audiences with varying levels of subject knowledge. Reviewed draft documents for clarity, logic, and grammar and provided basic copyediting services that were accepted and used with minimal revisions. Has experience creating the following: 1) event planning documents (e.g., invitations, calendar appointments), 2) reports containing data visualizations, 3) agendas/meeting notes, 4) presentations, and 5) project management documentation (e.g., schedules and lessons learned). Designed format and content of communications products to convey intended messages to target audiences with clarity and precision. Applied a thorough understanding of grammar, sentence structure, and intended audiences to the process of reviewing, editing, or constructively critiquing a document, publication, or message. Answer to this question is required Prepared written documentation to transfer administrative information about concepts, products, services, and/or results to audiences with varying levels of subject knowledge. Routinely copyedited documents that were disseminated within immediate office and to key stakeholders outside of immediate division or office. Work products required minimal revisions. Is considered by supervisor(s) and others as a skilled writer/copyeditor. Has experience independently producing ALL of the above documents. Prepared written documentation to transfer administrative information about concepts, products, services, and/or results to audiences with varying levels of subject knowledge. Copyedited documents that were disseminated within immediate office and to key stakeholders outside of immediate division or office. Has experience independently producing AT LEAST 1) THROUGH 4) of above documents in an administrative setting. Work products required minimal revisions. Has experience independently creating data visualizations to display information in reports and documents. Copyedited documents that were disseminated within immediate office. Has experience creating AT LEAST 1) THROUGH 4) of above documents in an administrative setting. Work products required minimal revisions. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration.&nbsp; Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others in a career development program. Demonstrated the ability to work collaboratively in a career development program with others (e.g., co-workers, supervisors, and program participants) to provide effective support in order to accomplish the work and goals of the program. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with others including those internal and external to program office to ensure the success of a career development program. Often helped program leadership to analyze the needs and requirements of stakeholders beyond the individual’s specific area of responsibility. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals in an effort to resolve problems and/or issues for the individual’s area of responsibility. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the program office and work group to ensure the success of a career development program. Worked collaboratively with others to ensure that program deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals in an effort to resolve problems and/or issues for the individual’s area of responsibility. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts through regular collaboration primarily internal to the program office and/or workgroup to ensure deadlines were met. Communicated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views in an effort to resolve problems and/or issues for the individual’s area of responsibility. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to plan, organize and learn continuously. Productively and efficiently planned and organized activities in order to maximize the quantity and quality of work delivered, including negotiating deadlines and managing competing priorities. This included: 1) used a process for planning and organizing own work in the office, 2) completed assigned tasks within schedule constraints, 3) completed assignments on time and with minimal oversight from supervisor(s), 4) set realistic work-related and professional development goals, and 5) self-identified and managed the process of developing a new skill or competency for use in the workplace within the last year. Answer to this question is required Has experience planning work and engaging in learning to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ALL the items above. Has experience planning work and engaging in learning to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ONE through FOUR of the items above. Has experience planning work and engaging in learning to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ONE through THREE of the items above. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).