Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer that best describes your specialized experience and/or directly related education: I possess at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to the Grade 9 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Biological Sciences positions. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. I have completed requirements for bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college/university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Choose one answer that best describes your specialized experience and/or directly related education: I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 Which one of the following statements best describes your demonstrated experience to manage an environmental citizen science program. (Choose the one best answer that applies to your documented experience) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience as the lead coordinator, researcher, or evaluator for five or more citizen science projects including incorporating stakeholder feedback, including from research scientists, into citizen science programs. I have experience as a coordinator, researcher, or evaluator for three or four citizen science projects including incorporating stakeholder feedback, including from research scientists, into citizen science programs. I have experience as a coordinator, researcher, or evaluator for a citizen science project. I do not have experience as a coordinator, researcher, or evaluator for citizen science projects. 5 Which of the following skills and experiences have you been responsible for in managing an environmental citizen science program. (Choose all answers that applies to your documented experience) Answer to this question is required Data collection, management and analysis Operation of scientific equipment such as microscopes, sampling devices, measuring equipment Creating or updating policies and SOPs for best practices and safety Coordinating with external organizational partners in a science program 6 Which one of the following statements best describes your demonstrated experience providing training for scientists, staff, interns, and volunteers in an environmental research and education setting. (Choose the one best answer that applies to your documented experience) Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience training scientists, staff, interns, and volunteers in an ecological research and education setting for at least 5 distinct projects. I have knowledge and experience training scientists, staff, interns, and volunteers in an ecological research and education setting for more than 1 project. I have participated in the training of scientists, staff, interns, and volunteers in an ecological research and education setting for more than 1 project. I do not have experience in the training of scientists, staff, interns, and volunteers in an ecological research and education setting. 7 Which one of the following statements best describes your knowledge of best practices of concepts and objectives for management of environmental citizen science and public engagement programs. (Choose the one best answer that applies to your documented experience) Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience developing and managing environmental citizen science and public engagement programs including at least 5 distinct projects which included scientists, interns and/or fellows, members of the general public. I have knowledge and experience developing and managing environmental citizen science and public engagement programs including at least 2 distinct projects which included scientists, interns and/or fellows, members of the general public. I have knowledge and experience developing and managing environmental citizen science and public engagement programs including a project that included scientists and/or interns, fellows, or members of the general public. I have participated in developing and managing environmental citizen science and public engagement programs. I have no experience with developing and managing environmental citizen science and public engagement programs. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.