Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 01 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Please select the occupational grouping(s) for which you would be qualified and for which you would like to be considered. (You may select more than one group.) Information about each grouping can be found at: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/classifying-general-schedule-positions/occupationalhandbook.pdf. Answer to this question is required 0100 – Social Science, Psychology, and Welfare Group 0200 – Human Resources Management Group 0300 – General Administrative, Clerical, and Office Services Group 0400 – Natural Resources Management and Biological Sciences Group 0500 – Accounting and Budget Group 0600 –Medical, Hospital, Dental, and Public Health Group 0800 – Engineering and Architecture Group 0900 – Legal and Kindred Group 1000 – Information and Arts Group 1100 – Business and Industry Group 1200 – Copyright, Patent, and Trademark Group 1300 – Physical Sciences Group 1400 – Library and Archives Group 1500 –Mathematical Sciences Group 1600 – Equipment, Facilities, and Services Group 1700 – Education Group 1800 – Inspection, Investigation, Enforcement, and Compliance Group 1900 – Quality Assurance, Inspection, and Grading Group 2000 – Supply Group 2100 – Transportation Group 2200 – Information Technology Group 3 Provide a brief narrative description of any experience or education which makes you qualified for your choice(s) above (for example, the knowledge, skills or abilities you have acquired through your education, degrees and/or your present or previous positions). Additional information can be placed in your resume or other application materials Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 What grade(s) do you wish to be considered for? ( You may select more than one grade. ) Information about federal grades/salaries can be found at the following sites: For white collar professional, technical, administrative, and clerical general schedule (GS) positions - https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salary-tables/16Tables/html/DCB.aspx. For senior level (SL) managerial positions - https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salary-tables/16Tables/exec/html/SLST.aspx. For blue collar craft, trade, and laboring wage worker/leader/supervisor (WG/WL/WS) positions - https://www.cpms.osd.mil/Content/AF%20Schedules/survey-sch/027/027R-23Dec2015.html. Answer to this question is required GS-01 GS-02 GS-03 GS-04 GS-05 GS-06 GS-07 GS-08 GS-09 GS-10 GS-11 GS-12 GS-13 GS-14 GS-15 SL-00 WG-01 WG-02 WG-03 WG-04 WG-05 WL-01 through 05 WS-01 through 05 5 What is the lowest grade you will accept? Answer to this question is required GS-01 GS-02 GS-03 GS-04 GS-05 GS-06 GS-07 GS-08 GS-09 GS-10 GS-11 GS-12 GS-13 GS-14 GS-15 SL-00 WG-01 WG-02 WG-03 WG-04 WG-05 WL-01 through 05 WS-01 through 05 It is not necessary to have experience related to all of the questions below. Some of the questions are designed to obtain information related to specific occupations and will be used when vacancies for those positions become available only. 6 Select the description below that best describes you experience communicating in writing. Independently wrote, reviewed , and edited documents and reports for final distribution, including memoranda, procedures, correspondence, reports and presentations that incorporated graphs, charts, and/or spreadsheets. Work products required few or no revisions. Played a significant role in writing, reviewing, and editing documents, including reports, memos, procedures, correspondence, and presentations for final distribution. Work products required few or no revisions. Played a significant role in writing documents, including reports, memos, procedures, correspondence, and presentations. Work products required few or no revisions. None of the above. 7 Select the description(s) below that best describe your experience communicating orally. ( Select ALL that apply. ) I have led briefings or taught courses on highly technical or complex materials to audiences such as high-level managers or executives. I have given short oral presentations at departmental or organizational briefings and meetings to convey information on program activities or to describe the impact of new organizational policies on operational responsibilities. I have communicated orally with supervisors, managers, or office personnel to notify them of decisions, problems, or further actions needed, or to explain the organizations programs or services. I have communicated orally with colleagues to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information. I have no experience performing this task. 8 Demonstrated ability to read, write and understand the following languages. ( Select ALL that apply. ) For each language for which you claim the ability to read, write and understand, please identify your level of proficiency by selecting the appropriate number from the list of Language Proficiency Levels below. (Example: English-Level 4, Full Proficiency) English Japanese Chinese French Russian South Asian languages (e.g., Hindi) Sub-Saharan African languages Portuguese Spanish South Slavic languages (e.g., Bosnian, Bulgaria, Slovenian, Servia, Macedonia, Croatia) Hebrew and/or Yiddish German Italian Korean Bengali Arabic American Sign Language 9 Proficiency Levels 0. No Proficiency • No practical speaking or reading proficiency 1. Elementary Proficiency • Able to satisfy routine travel needs and courtesy requirements • Able to read some place names, street signs, numbers and words and phrases 2. Limited Working Proficiency • Able to satisfy routine social demands and work requirements • Able to read simple prose on familiar subjects 3. Minimum Proficiency • Able to participate in most formal and informal conversations on social and professional topics • Able to read standard newspaper items, routine correspondence and technical materials in the individual's field. 4. Full Proficiency • Able to use the language fluently and accurately for professional needs. • Able to read all styles and forms of the language for professional needs. 5. Native or Bilingual Proficiency • Equivalent to that of a native speaker and reader. Maximum length of 250 characters. 10 Please select the type(s) of computer technology with which you have experience. ( Select ALL that apply. ) word processing software (e.g. Microsoft Word, WordPerfect) database management software (e.g. Microsoft Access) electronic spreadsheet software (e.g. Microsoft Excel) electronic mail and calendar software (e.g. Microsoft Outlook) presentation software (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint) Adobe Acrobat Professional financial shared services software (e.g. Momentum) personnel/payroll systems (e.g. WebTA, NFC, EmpowHR, eManagement) graphics or multimedia packages (e.g. QuickTime Pro, Adobe Captivate) Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Bridge, Media Encoder) collaborative online tools (e.g. Microsoft SharePoint, wikis, content management systems) mapping software (e.g., Map Resources or ArcGIS) integrated library systems (ILS) (e.g. Voyager) cataloging tools (e.g. Class Web, Cataloger's Desktop) bibliographic utilities (e.g. OCLC) 11 Demonstrated ability to interact collaboratively with others. ( Select the description below that best illustrates your experience. ) Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization and provided specialized and technical information. Influenced others to be committed to furthering the organization’s objectives. Routinely communicated and consulted with colleagues and served as a liaison with contacts outside the employing organization. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization and provided specialized and technical information. Influenced others to be excited and committed to furthering the organization’s objectives. Routinely communicated and consulted with colleagues and served as a liaison with contacts outside the employing organization. In academic and/or professional setting, developed and maintained professional relationships, collaborating, gathering and communicating information to complete work and to improve teamwork. For example, helped a co-worker complete a project by a deadline. None of the above. 12 Developed, planned, and analyzed strategies necessary to coordinate and solve organizational and operational issues and problems. ( Select the description below that best illustrates your experience. ) Led a team to analyze routine, complex and/or controversial operational issues, evaluated information discerning factual interrelationships that are not always obvious, and assessed a variety of situations and forged solutions acceptable to affected organizations. Independently, analyzed routine, complex and/or controversial operational issues, evaluated information discerning factual interrelationships that are not always obvious, and assessed a variety of situations and forged solutions acceptable to affected organizations. As a key member of a team, analyzed routine, complex and/or controversial operational issues and forged solutions acceptable to affected organizations. Evaluated information discerning factual interrelationships that are not always obvious, and assessed a variety of situations and forged solutions acceptable to affected organizations. None of the above. 13 Demonstrated knowledge of contracting principles. ( Select the description below that best illustrates your experience. ) In an academic or professional capacity, applied knowledge of and experience interpreting contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to solicit, evaluate, negotiate, award, and administer contracts. In an academic or professional capacity, applied knowledge of contracting principles to assess and analyze basic contracts, develop requirements, evaluate contractor performance, and negotiate contract terms. Applied knowledge of contracting principles to ASSIST in assessing and analyzing basic contracts, developing requirements, and/or evaluating practical situations requiring solicitation, evaluation, negotiation, and administration of contractual relationship. None of the above. 14 Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts and techniques to carry out library functions or library programs. ( Select the description below that best illustrates your experience. ) Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the standard principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science applied to routine library functions or programs (e.g., developed knowledge of the subject area and provided library services in a library or archival setting and directing users to resources in other libraries and organizations). Demonstrated general knowledge of the standard principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science applied to portions of routine library functions or programs (e.g., developed knowledge of library records and provided library services in a library or archival setting). Demonstrated limited knowledge of the standard principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science applied to limited portions of routine library functions or programs (e.g., provided reference services or performed library functions in an academic setting). None of the above. 15 Select the following functions that you have performed in a library, archival or academic setting. ( Select ALL that apply. ) Ensured collections were safe from hazards Ensured collections were accessible for use Retrieved library materials Assisted library patrons in the use of library resources Prepared library or archival materials for binding and/or performed basic repairs Arranged, sorted and re-shelved materials 16 Demonstrated ability to complete information technology (IT) related tasks. ( Select ALL that apply. ) Evaluated and defined data requirements and specifications Designed, developed, implemented and revised databases Built or maintained data dictionaries Coordinated the implementation of database architectures Developed or assisted in the development of data standards, policies and proceduresInstalled new or modified software releases and updates Configured database software Conducted data migration Analyzed and applied upgrades, bug patches and security patches Provided troubleshooting services to customers on a range of IT related issues Improved database performance Administered multiple database systems requiring integration Provided technical support to IT staff engaged in developing and implementing systems None of the above 17 Select the statement(s) below that describe your ability to use standard social science research resources and tools to perform public policy-related research tasks. ( Select ALL that apply. ) I have reviewed articles or literature and summarized key findings, research methodologies, and analytical shortcomings. I have researched, collected, and compiled information and data. I have interpreted and evaluated information and data for accuracy, relevance, authoritativeness, and usefulness for a particular research project. I have formatted information and data to meet targeted, well-defined research needs (e.g., developed tables or graphics to include in written reports or PowerPoint presentations. I have designed, created, populated, and maintained databases or spreadsheets or quantitative or qualitative data. I have processed, consolidated, and transformed data using statistical and/or econometric techniques. 18 Select the statement(s) below that describe your ability to apply knowledge of the social science analytic research process. Select the description below that best illustrates your experience. ( Select ALL that apply. ) I have conducted a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to an undergraduate independent study project/senior thesis in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program. I have conducted a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to research conducted for master’s level coursework in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program. I have conducted a qualitative and/or quantitative research project equivalent to a master’s thesis in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program. I have completed master’s degree in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program, served as a research assistant in the public or private sector, or had equivalent work experience. I have completed coursework towards a doctoral degree in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program, served as a contributing author of published research in a peer-reviewed professional journal in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program, or had equivalent work experience. I have completed a doctoral degree in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program, served as a primary author of published research in a peer-reviewed professional journal in a social science discipline or equivalent degree program, or had equivalent work experience. 19 Knowledge of statutory and compulsory licensing provisions of the copyright law. Used knowledge of copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures and practices to communicate information. Applied knowledge of copyright law, regulations, and/or other areas of intellectual property in responding to inquiries and resolving operational and/or procedural issues. Used Copyright Office records regularly. Applied knowledge in analyzing issues related to copyright and other areas of intellectual property law. Completed coursework in copyright and other areas of intellectual property law. 20 Knowledge of Copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures and practices. Used knowledge of Copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and/or practices. Routinely and with minimal supervision applied knowledge of the Copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures and/or practices in addressing issues and questions and providing information and guidance in resolving problems and issues related to copyright. Applied knowledge of Copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures and/or practices to respond to routine copyright questions and resolve routine operational and procedural issues. Completed coursework related to Copyright law as a student or employee. 21 How did you hear about this job opening? ( Select ALL that apply. ) Answer to this question is required AIGC.com - American Indian Graduate Center BIGnet.org - Blacks in Government CRS (Congressional Research Services) recruitment sources (please specify in question below) HACEonline.org - Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement HACU.net - Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities Job fair or recruitment site (please specify in question below) LATPRO - Organization focusing on Hispanic and diversity job fairs LinkedIn.com/jobs/ - Networking site for professionals Listserv (please specify in question below) Library of Congress employment website (LOC.gov/hr/employment/index.php?action=cMain.showJobs) Newspaper/Professional Journal (please specify in question below) USAJOBS.gov - website with available government jobs Other (please specify in question below) 22 If you selected one of the sources above that asked for more specific information, and/or heard about this opportunity from a source that is not listed, please provide that information in the box below. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).