Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have scored psychological tests and written results summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., personality inventories intelligence tests, criminal thinking inventories, neurological screening tests, vocational assessments) and at least one type of sex-offender specific test (i.e., STATIC 99, SORAG, SVR-20, Sonar, MnSOST, RRASOR, Multiphasic Sex Inventory, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, Penile Plethysmograph); and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results including at least one type of sex-offender specific test; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessment which included at least one type of sex-offender specific test (i.e., STATIC 99, SORAG, SVR-20, Sonar, MnSOST, RRASOR, Multiphasic Sex Inventory, Clarke Sexual History Questionnaire, Abel Screen, Penile Plethysmograph). I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence tests, vocational assessments); and/or I have coordinated a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 6 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions and his/her use within the context of a formal treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated a skills training group in a structured treatment program for a specialized population; and/or I have worked as a therapist in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team in an inpatient treatment unit for specialized populations, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients providing clinical recommendations for individualized treatment. I have supervised therapists in a drug and alcohol treatment program; and/or I have served as the supervising psychologist in a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients, who supervised staff and provided direct clinical services; and/or I have directed services for mentally ill offenders in an inpatient or outpatient setting. I have served as a director of a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for sex offenders performing administrative duties, supervision of staff and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have developed and supervised a skills-based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients; and/or I have served as coordinator for a specialized treatment program in an inpatient or forensic setting providing supervision and oversight of direct clinical services; and/or I have created and oversaw an outpatient treatment program for a specialized population, such as depressed, anxious, thought disordered, personality disordered or substance abusing patients. None of the above. 7 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a cognitive-behavioral therapy group in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted individual, cognitive-behaviorally based psychotherapy with sex offenders in a forensic setting; and/or I have maintained an individual/group caseload of sex offenders in an outpatient setting providing cognitive-behaviorally oriented interventions. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or group setting; and/or I have facilitated a non-correctional psychotherapy group. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have facilitated a psychotherapy group in a correctional setting; and/or I have led a research group which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality within a wide variety setting. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving a patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self- harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by providing an evidenced based treatment intervention as dictated by a treatment plan for an inmate on suicide watch; and/or I have determined whether an inmate’s condition is severe or chronic enough to warrant a referral to the Department of Mental Health; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with inmates with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have trained correctional staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of sex offenders. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follow the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a forensic examiner with a specialization in sex offenders for criminal courts; and/or I have conducted risk assessments of sex offenders as a component of civil commitment proceedings; and/or I have performed psychosexual assessments of sex offenders in the context of a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted psychological evaluations on civilly-committed sex offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment for sex offenders. I have been employed as a psychotherapist in a prison-based, residential treatment program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided direct clinical services at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have served as a clinical administrator who provided the oversight of direct clinical services in an outpatient sex offender evaluation unit; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed sex offenders. I have completed a primary rotation on sex offender evaluation or treatment as a pre-doctoral intern; and/or I have completed a postdoctoral internship providing clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offender treatment program. None of the above. 10 The Sex Offender Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to peer or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training, supervision and mentoring to staff in a community-based or correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with policy and best practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).