Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 GS-14: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-14: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge and experience utilizing the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) v3 Framework? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge, training, or experience in ITIL v3 Framework. I have education or training in assisting others with ITIL v3 Framework. I have utilized portions of the ITIL v3 Framework to document and analyze processes for an office or bureau. I have used ITIL v3 Framework to document, analyze, and assess complex IT business processes during implementation of ITIL v3 Framework. I have developed and led an ITIL v3 Framework implementation project and extensively used the Framework to analyze, document, and assess complex IT business processes in the organization, and I have also trained and mentored others in using ITIL v3 Framework. 4 Please indicate your level of experience enlisting the cooperation and participation of senior Department or Agency officials in a project or process. Answer to this question is required I have no experience enlisting the cooperation and participation of senior officials in a project or process I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of an Office or Bureau Director in a project or process that I managed. I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of Directors from an office or bureau in a bureau-wide project or process that I managed. I have enlisted the cooperation and participation of senior Department or Agency level executives in a Department-wide project or process that I managed. 5 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of work experience in the federal information technology acquisition management policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area I have had education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area I have used my organization`s acquisition process I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals) I have led a complex acquisition I have developed acquisition policies and procedures 6 Which of the following BEST describes your experience integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing these tasks. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have no work experience in this area. I have performed these tasks on the job under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these tasks on the job without the review of a supervisor or senior employee. I am experienced in performing these tasks and providing guidance and supervision to others in these areas. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with the systems development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the systems development process I have knowledge of, or education in, the systems development process but no experience I have performed tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project I have lead a phase of a systems development project I have directed a systems development project through the full life cycle from inception to sustained production 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience determining the most appropriate contracting method type and acquisition strategy for various types of procurement. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with information technology (IT) asset management? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, IT asset management. I have assisted others in the collection, identification, and/or tracking of IT assets. I have participated in annual IT audits/inventories. I have organized, managed, and/or trained others in the collection, identification and tracking of IT assets. I have lead annual IT audits/inventories on behalf of an organization. 10 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with the analysis of technology hardware and software solutions that meet the business needs of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have no experience analyzing business needs for technology hardware or software solutions. I have training or education in analyzing business needs for technology hardware and software solutions, but have no work experience in this area. I have performed individual tasks related to analyzing business needs for technology hardware and software solutions under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have assisted with the overall analysis of technology hardware and software solutions for a project. I have led an analysis project related to business needs for technology hardware and software. 11 Which of the following choices best describes your experience developing implementation plans for long-term projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience I have performed work in these areas, but my work was monitored I have performed work in these areas independently I have mentored others in these areas 12 From the list below, select all of the activities that you have performed in support of formal technical presentations: Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for selecting and scheduling the venue for the presentation. I have been responsible for identifying and sending invitations to the target audience. I have been responsible for developing the agenda for the presentation. I have been responsible for creating technical material for use by other presenters. I have been responsible for creating the presentation package (powerpoint slides, etc.). I have been responsible for presenting some portion of the material. I have been responsible for all (or most) of the presentation. I have been responsible for leading the Q&A session as the technical expert. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.