Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience pertaining to supervising staff in a museum, cultural or historical organization&rsquo;s collections department? &nbsp; (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have served as a senior specialist in a museum, cultural or historical organization’s collections department. I have served as a supervisor in a museum, cultural or historical organization’s collections department. I have served as a work or team leader in a museum, cultural or historical organization’s collections department. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience managing an organization&rsquo;s collection specialty areas? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a senior specialist in a collections department in the areas of: 1. Collections management 2. Lending 3. Preservation 4. Accessioning and Deaccessioning 5. Exhibiting 6. Providing increased access to the collection and 7. Digitizing the collection. I have experience serving as a senior specialist in a collections department in the areas of: 1. Collections management 2. Lending 3. Preservation 4. Accessioning and 5. Exhibiting I have experience serving as a senior specialist in a collections department in the areas of: 1. Lending 2. Accessioning and 3. Exhibiting None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience creating protocols pertaining to digitization of a collection in a museum, cultural or historical organization? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing new protocols and processes for providing accessibility to an organization’s digital collection. I have experience creating protocols and procedures for digitizing an organization’s physical collection. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describes your experience with digitizing and storing the physical collection in a museum, cultural or historical organization? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing new protocols and processes for capturing and storing an organization’s digital collection. I have experience digitizing an organization’s physical collection. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience giving presentations in a museum, cultural or historical organization? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience giving presentations to a museum, cultural or historical organization’s stakeholders. I have experience giving presentations to a museum, cultural or historical organization’s donors. I have experience giving presentations to a museum, cultural or historical organization’s potential donors. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience giving verbal analyses to a museum, cultural or historical organization&rsquo;s senior management on collection accessioning? &nbsp; (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have experience giving analysis on the accessioning of transfers, purchases and exchanges. I have experience giving analysis on the accessioning of purchases and exchanges. I have experience giving analysis on the accessioning of gifts, transfers, purchases and exchanges. None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience giving verbal analyses to a museum, cultural or historical organization&rsquo;s senior management on collection management issues? &nbsp; (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have experience giving analysis on deaccessioning, conservation, preservation, security and environmental protections. I have experience giving analysis on security and environmental protections. I have experience giving analysis on preservation, security and environmental protections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.